Minda James Semilan  0:00  
I'm from Kuching (Sarawak), so I want to replicate your your your solution, yes. So how do we do it systematically, right? And so we want to put this in our guide guideline. The book is about the guides, how other people can replicate the initiative. So number one, we select the baseline city here in the example, DCP, NSD, and then we assess what, what we have in the baseline city, for example, the governance, how it's run, the existing SOPs, the infrastructure, the connectivity, the sensors, how many sensors that you have to implement this, how many CCTVs, and then the data ecosystem, the flood, rainfall, plus the data from CCTV. And then your implementer, the vendor you mentioned about how you utilize, the local startup, so we have that assessment. And then your environmental profile, the frequent monster floods, which, I mean, if you are going to do it with coaching, we almost have the similar situation. So it's very good baseline,

Mayor Kanop  1:14  
every year, every year, every year, okay?

Minda James Semilan  1:19  
And yeah, the target the target city, as mentioned just now, for example, coaching and we do in the step four, we conduct the assessment on the target city. What we do have, I mean, what, in terms of governance, in terms of infrastructure, data, environmental and community engagement registers, and then this is the most important one. We do the baseline versus the target. We do the analysis how much we different from each other. And then we identify the gap which requiring the adaptation, for example, how much you do? Why is it so successful in your place? And then how easily we can adapt this? And we need to see where we are as well, right? And Step six is that it's more about the ASEAN replied, metrics, where we look into the policy alignment, cost, visibility, the skills, availability, infrastructure, environment, this is to do systematically, to compare between the two the two cities as a whole in Asian. So where, where we see, because we might, might have different in certain area, for example, maybe the cultural things like that, right? So in the step seven. So once we have that, we identify the gaps everything, then we put up this. Main step level is about putting it out in the proper something like a proposal or, I mean, in the business term, is the business case? Why we are doing this? What are the problems? What are the solution? The data that we have, and then the KPI, how do we measure the success of this implementation later on, and also, what are the risks that we may face? So we put the baseline city model as our effort when we develop this use case definition. And then, of course, after, after we put up the proposal, we need to have the implementation roadmap, short term, long term, right what we are going to do. And then, of course, after the roadmap, we should have something like a toolkit or SOP development template for everyone to use when we implement this data. This is basically the standardization how to do reports. How do we put up the analysis at the end? The last step is to execute the projects, the initiatives, and then monitor, monitor them, and we adapt or adjust accordingly, and also to scale up. Perhaps we start from some areas that we scale up to a bigger one. So basically, in this section, we are talking about, how do we replicate the framework to replicate one initiative from one city to another city.

Mayor Kanop  4:49  
Okay, I think you recover everything that I have only two points. The first one is about private sector. I think it's in a step. Step IoT that you say step one, yeah, yeah, local. You mean vendor ecosystem, right? Okay, my view is that for for startup company that you want to work with, you want to marry to this startup. So we need to have a clear path, clear plan, like, like, for example, for me, that we don't have a city budget for you, just enough for you to run the pilot scale project, okay, but if you have a very successful case, then you can register your product at the deba. Once the deba endorse your product, that means the procurement of the city, all the city in Thailand, is possible, okay? One of the barrier of the of the private company is that they go to they take a product to different cities, and they try to do advertising, okay, but for the city mayor, we want to see what's the case studies that work, and we want to go to that place to learn, and then we can make decision. So I think that we have to explain to the to to low local vendors or startup that want to work with the city. What's your goal? What's your plan? Okay? And then we open everything that because it's a win, win situation, like for the city, we get a new products that do good things for the people and the company, as an opportunity to expand the market for profits. Okay, that's one thing. And the second thing that I think you need the mechanisms for trial and error. I think

Tristan   7:21  
that should be part of step that should be, I

Mayor Kanop  7:27  
mean, deploy, pilot, yeah, yeah, okay. Pilot, monitor data, train officers, refi system, okay, when I say trial and errors, I mean that how you engage people, the user is the most important things, right? If you can engage user, if I like, we have a fail Smart City project as well in our city, because, I think from just from my perspective, but user perspective, so we start a project, and the KPI for that Project is that not many users are using that project, so we know that it's wrong. It's not the right direction. Okay? If people, they like the project, they accept it, then we should have many users, yeah, so like the platform that we have, like a 10 100,000 people, that's a lot. So what we must have done something good for them. So they keep coming and keep coming. Okay, a day, they do not drop out from the platform, because they can't drop out from the platform easily. Just hit a menu like they're out, but they still hang in there, because there's something in there for them. So in step 10, I think how to engage users and make the product, make the product or the project, sustainable. Yes, yes, thank you.

Non Arkara  9:26  
Okay, I just have one comment. Maybe many of you might resonate with my comment, which is the fact that it sounds really boring, but like you're asking me, yeah, yeah. So, so, so now, now is your job to gamify this, okay, make this interesting. Like, I mean, because that's what home you have at our office as well. When we put together the index, right? We have an index for our smart cities in Thailand. We have to rank them every two years. And every time we have to do that work is always really boring, because it's all about touching number into Excel sheets and then see, you know which city comes up on top it city comes up below. I mean, it's an interesting exercise to a degree, right? Because a lot of people love to monitor thing. A lot of people love to actually implement thing. But if we have, if we come up with, agree on an assumption, that monitoring is usually more tedious than creating then we have to make this interesting. We have to make this more fun than just a task of, you know, some guys going around, you know, checking the meters and checking stuff and making sure that everything's implemented on on on time. And I just want to add one more thing about the step eight is that we need to be flexible, right? So the problem we have, I have a lot of it with the planning of policy, is that they have these fixed, short term, long term plan, and they don't change it when new information comes in, right? So we have to have a robustness strategy for when new information comes in. But you guys are developing this chatbot for a long time, for instance, and one day, AI came along and your chatbot, and you've been developing for a long time, it has become a sunk cost. Then cut it off, you know, you know, cut off the amputators legs that are no longer working, and move to the AI that is working for you cheaper and more efficiently. We have to have the kind of robust flexibility plan in there as well, because otherwise, we'll stick to plan that at the end, it's already been outdated because of the implementations. Okay, and make it fun. You know, how do you make monitoring processes fun? I think, I think that's something that you want to look into. But with mind experiences in digital project. He's the one who procure all the digital project in Sarawak. You can, yeah, well, we have another session. Maybe can talk with you, can talk with some of the people here who do procurement or stuff, and then you extract as much as you can in terms of information to write this chapter right, make it as comprehensive and fun and gamify as possible.

Minda James Semilan  11:53  
But we, we, I mean, just now, we haven't decided how all of us want this to be like the storytelling. I mean, this is just the framework. Framework, right? How I write, it depends on how we all want to create a story based on these storytelling about one one guy wants to remain one, one

Non Arkara  12:26  
guy, but, but, okay, yeah, I think that will be one of the ways to look at I mean, we don't have to make the whole the whole the whole books very consistent. I mean, they can do some books that are storytelling stuff. There could be some chapters that are technical stuff, because, you know, people were inspired by the stories, and now they just have to kind of read a little bit more on the actual technicalities. It could be a mixture of that, right? So I'm basically managing a book where you read, and then after a chapter, there is an interjection, just like intermission, whereby you read about, you know, something else. It's not about the story, you know, just kind of to put, put your mind back in the place where it's supposed to belong. And then moving on to the next chapter, when you expose to the new Yeah. So there's chapters where, just, you know, grocery or terms, or chapters on, you know, these are the some of the techniques that people use for public procurement, you know, something that it's kind of like added in order to make the whole thing, content rich at the same time, storytelling driven, yeah. So, you know, think, think about it, because eventually you guys gonna have to maybe schedule, maybe a couple more calls with the people from here, you know, they get your data.

Minda James Semilan  13:31  
Okay, okay, one more question. So in our guide, our baseline, is this

Non Arkara  13:38  
city, right? Well, the best we do in general, in general, well, the handbook is a handbook. The code name right now is a handbook for citizen centric smart city. And I did some research. Actually, the term was used before citizen centric was people centric smart city. There's user centric smart cities. There's people oriented smart cities, but the first city that ever used the term citizen subject is because etymologically, so because of that, we wanted to create a book, but then the book itself would be so shallow if it's not based on reality of some place that we have trust on. That's why we chose this place. So we're going to be extracting a lot of informations and lessons learned from this city, but at the same time, you can also bring in your own ideas and stuff like that too. But when we, whenever we need to find the best line. Because when people read books like this, they're looking for, is this just a dream, or is it has been implemented already? Right? When they look, they look for that. We bring in case study from here. But if the case study from here isn't enough in some places whereby they, you know, we did ask questions about advanced AI, maybe we can. We can look into Vienna or other cities as well that might have some case studies. Bring it, and that's your job, because you guys been traveling quite a bit too. You know what's out there? But we focus is on the medium size Southeast Asian cities with climatic condition closer to this one, which is most of the cities in southeast Asia anyway. And that's why this book would be very benefiting to Southeast Asia. But we are going to frame the handbook for Southeast Asian citizen, triximas city, because expansion. Because let's just make a book sound small. Let's just make it handbook for business and exposed before the whole world, because that would actually get more exposure governance, guys,

Clinton Moore  15:18  
actually, I'll start from, oh, sorry. I'll start with the story. Okay?

Tristan   15:35  
Tomorrow, lunch time

Non Arkara  15:40  
tomorrow? Yes, we need more working time, sir, this is not done yet. We still need more ninja teens, and

Roman  15:47  
I would have stayed longer, but I have to go to Japan.

Non Arkara  15:57  
Evening, evening. Do song too.

I would I would have go back today, if not because of these guys staying Hey. See different. I would have gone back today. I had lots of work to do tomorrow. I

Well, meanwhile, Mr. Mayor, I was talking to Glenda last night. He was asking me one question, very interestingly, about the differences between in terms of character of the Northern people and southern people, because you did mention that yesterday alluded to a little bit that Southern people tend to be spread forward, and they tend to be like, like to drink coffee and talk politics in the morning. Is that Is it a myth, or is it a stereotype? Or is it really like cultural differences?

Mayor Kanop  16:58  
Cultural difference? Why? Why? Because this culture from India, so we are like a center of Buddhism, right? Buddhists disappear from India because of the invasion, right? So the Buddhist monk escaped to Sri Lanka and then from Sri Lanka to Nepali. So they came here with the culture of exchanging, okay, debating, right? That's in India culture, right?

Non Arkara  17:41  
Oh, okay, yes. Oh, okay, Indian culture got it, yeah.

Mayor Kanop  17:46  
So when they had the chance to go to India, to the place that enlightening of the Buddha, Buddha, and then they have people walking around, drinking crumb Chai. That's a tea. Very simple, right? That's the assumption. And you see the people, they want to talk a lot, okay? That's the way that they learn, and then,

Non Arkara  18:27  
okay, you can send it to me, very similar. That just

Mayor Kanop  18:40  
very similar, that the people in the north and in the south of Philippines have different characters.

Tristan   18:51  
But South is, I don't know if the same here. We're a bit like we think of our Well, the North is like their superior, and they think they're superior. Something like, Is that the same here? The North is like that, yeah. So what's with the North? Right? They think they're always on top, Yeah, same, same. So we call them Imperial Manila, or us. That's how, yeah, let's not shout it out, because Ramon is from Manila city. But when we say Imperial Manila, it refers to that, not just Manila, yeah, not just Manila city.

Mayor Kanop  19:40  
So one of my best life, and I talk to parents to convince them to use a new technology, is that kids in Bangkok, they're using this all done, right? Okay, sure, right.

Tristan   19:59  
So your kid should not be left behind.

Mayor Kanop  20:01  
That's right.

Clinton Moore  20:06  
Okay, so governance assistance, actually, I'll start from the story idea that we had, and it's actually based on our phone call that we just had. Oh, really. So I actually thought, do you remember those books when you're a kid, choose your own adventure and like, something happens, or you choose this happens or that happens. Yeah. So actually, this was like, I call the mayor, but he doesn't pick up, or the mayor picks up, and then, therefore the sort of fate of the city or some issue changes because you pick up the call, or don't pick up the call. Okay, so you've picked up my call, and therefore everything goes well, but maybe you don't pick up my call and everything,

Mayor Kanop  20:52  
like a swinging door,

sliding door

Non Arkara  20:53  
Sliding door,

Roman  20:58  
and that could You could also do that with like, I could, I could propose a project to you an idea, and you say yes, you agree. Or option two, the mayor doesn't agree, and then the sort of fate of the city, or the city takes a different course. So yeah, I just when I called you, I thought, well, maybe I actually have a real emergency and but the mayor doesn't pick up, and then it changes the fate of my neighborhood or my you know, so you can use that as a sort of, but I just remember those books when I was a kid, you know, I used to really enjoy those, choose your own adventure. So, like, I think, as a city, like, as a story hook, like, that's a kind of interesting thing, because if the mayor does something, you know, right place, right time, you know, maybe it changes the alters the faith of the

Non Arkara  21:49  
city. So you were reading that book when you were kids. I mean, it was kids. I was studying nuclear physics. I don't know, different kind of kids, you know, kind of childhood you have here.

Clinton Moore  21:59  
I used to actually

read atlases when I

was a kid. What a nerd alert, okay, but like governance, so it's, this is a bit boring, this stuff, but it's more than the way that the government delivers stuff, or structured or fun stuff, but it's actually the yesterday, you know, you talked very passionately about the philosophy of the city, the mindset and the culture and bringing the community along. So you know, good governance for for me, and you demonstrated that yesterday is when public servants and the mayor come to work and you actually know what needs to be done, and the community feels comfortable to to call. I'm not sure maybe you could say, but community members feel comfortable to actually call these numbers. But you know, the community feels comfortable to talk to their elected officials, and overall, it's not, you know, the goal is not just to deliver services to govern, but actually to change the trajectory of a city in the time that you have as a mayor. So we our foundation is kind of the nakonti Tamara context, but we know that some cities across ASEAN aren't at this level. And across ASEAN, you know, I have experience working with cities that spend years branding themselves as smart, but this kind of is just a mask, you know, it's there's actually quite deep, fundamental structural issues in these cities. But they go to different conferences and they say that, you know, we're we're smart, because they have maybe one particular initiative that has worked well. But actually, the system, the structure of government, hasn't actually really changed. It's like when I was in the Philippines, I stayed in a city called the Science City of Munoz, the first Science City in the Philippines. Okay, they branded themselves, but they were only like that because they had about like 10 research institutions in the city. Like, the mindset of the citizens was not like, we're a Science City, like, fundamentally, it was the same mindset and buying guys and infrastructure across the rest of the city. But they just had, like, this one stream of research institutes where they had this, you know, the mayor sold this idea that we are the first and the only science city in the Philippines. Yeah. So obviously, as a to be a smart city, you know, the goal of being a smart city isn't enough, and if you don't have enough resources, what, what can you do? You know, there's different ways that cities govern smart cities. So they sometimes they the smart city offices. Offices sit in the planning office, sometimes in the IT office, sometimes in the communications office. There are different approaches. But you know, we can have a discussion about whether that actually matters to the way that the city is thought of. Item two around policy enablers and barriers to governance. Yeah, we thought that structure is an enabler, but actually, one word that is not used enough in government is discipline, and the discipline and the courage to follow through on a long term vision. So you know, non and I were talking the other day about the smart city Congress in Barcelona. And for 15 years, they've had this smart city branded event that is, that is about Smart City transformation in Barcelona. Now, I've never been to Barcelona, but you said, fundamentally, like nothing much has changed. It's just like a marketing or a branding sort of exercise. So, and now there's, you know, all these cities are latching on to this idea of smart cities and organizing, like one day conferences or, you know, just like a workshop every year, but it's just a marketing system, a trade exercise. Like nothing really changes. And I I'm not, maybe you can tell us later to have this sort of Nakhon C Taman is actually very well known across, like, UN agencies as a really proactive city. But I'm not sure if you've ever, like, tried to actually have a sort of like event, or smart cities, like a big sort of, you know, hundreds of people here talking about Smart Cities sort of thing. And you know, for me, actually, it's not, I know you have election cycles and things like that, but being in Bangkok, and we did some some work on the sinking cities. Work in Bangkok, and we're trying to set up this Asian Pacific sinking cities sort of platform, you know, not just long term, but long, long term change like to 2100 like, we're trying to get cities to think super long term, which is difficult with election cycles. And obviously that's a key, key barrier to to governance, is just the fact that you deal with different personalities, different policy agendas, like, every three years and 2100 like, you know, mayors, like a lot of Mayor, just don't care, you know, like, or they don't want to draw attention to something that's going to have economic, economically catastrophic consequences, for example. So for example, if you say that Bangkok is sinking, or Ho Chi, Minh City is sinking, or Shanghai is sinking, that's going to invest that, sorry, make that might change investor confidence, confidence in, you know, investment in, actually people wanting to invest in the city. Because why would I build something there's, it's, you know, 6070, years, even less, in some parts of Bangkok, it may actually not be physically usable. So it's it's a tough balance there between the short term and the long term. Lastly, just wanted to finish off, governance is mindset first. So it's about changing thinking and smart city, not just as a tech project, but you know, it's about community improvement. It's about actually changing people's lives. If you have donor funded projects, I'd like cities to scrutinize, like their longer term impacts as well, because some donors just come in and say, Hey, here's three years, four years of money, and after that, see you later, our strategic priorities have been met. So I'd like cities to be, you know, actually holding donors to account a bit more in terms of longer term impacts. And the rest of the stuff you're is, you know, this is stuff that Napolitano is doing really well. So don't leave the smart city agenda to a handful of staff. Make the smart city a philosophy throughout different departments, be proactive in the way that you bring the idea of a smart city to different parts of the city. So we saw that yesterday with the site visit and the way that you bring in kids. And, you know, I asked non a question about whether the spaces were used for businesses or private sector to use as well, maybe not yet, but potentially in the future, and the way that you interact and bring along people on this journey journey, but you don't brand things as Smart City, per se, when you're talking to a resident or a customer, but the way that that feeds into what you're doing definitely is and you're even by treating them with respect and dignity, that's even making the city smarter in itself. I think so. Yeah, I didn't want to sort of tell everyone that governance is structures and budgets and whatever, but I think there's a lot to be said for the way that you approach it philosophically and how you actually build this mindset within the city, across the government and schools and the community. So thanks. That's it. Thank you.

Mayor Kanop  29:59  
Thank you very much, and I learned a lot today. I'm glad that, because you have experience, you travel, you learn from these different cities right and now you distill your experience in this seminar, and that's I learned a lot from you from your presentation. Tomorrow, I'll find house for you.

Non Arkara  30:38  
I mean, I would pick up the offer, but, I mean, I would bring a project with you, if you can think of something that's on the pipeline, the pipeline of UNDP, or any UN because, I mean, what are we doing for the city so far is to look for opportunities, right? The one that we just got, that just ended was the one that we work on for the whole year, ran from the Korean government, and that one was was was challenging, because Korean government has a very, very Korean way of looking at things, which is which usually translated to inflexibility, basically, right? So, I mean, but at the end, I think of the style the city learn that inflexibility as part of their cultural learning processes, because they can't expect everybody to work like us. There's always different protocols, different patterns of doing things and so on. I just want to push you a little bit more, because I think, I think what you were, what you're getting at, is really cool. And I can see your passion when you talk about the mayor, like in this, in the friend, that it's almost like color personality at a level. We kind of tore down on that a little bit wrong. You know, I want to write a book about Maoism and then Stalinism, just kidding. But the point is, I think, I think, I think you're getting something very important. But the obvious questions, you know, as we between the lines, are you saying that? Well, it's the existing governance system still working. If the how you have to do it is have to be so different, or is it, is it working in the system? What kind of mechanics, anthropological, humanistic, sociological or technological that can be used on to actually enhances, possibly, so you can find it out. I think you can just, you know, sit down your computer and just start writing for a while. You might be able to find out what, what is that, that basic ingredients, that the need for the system to work without bringing the whole thing down in the first place? Yeah. And second of all, I think you were alluding a lot to how, how he was so he looks as if he enjoys work so much, and we don't know for sure, right, whether he enjoys his work so much. It looks like he is enjoying it, but he might be lying, right? But that's governance, right? You have to act in such a way that provide confidence to your citizens. And maybe one other way to do it is to look Eboli and to look, you know, flamboyant in terms of, like, activities and engagements and so on. Maybe that's a strategy too. Yeah, it's kind of Machiavellian to a degree, but it is a strategy. So if you look into that, I mean that would turn the perspective of cover personality into an actual leadership role modeling, which I think would be nice to actually, actually have. What did you think of the story? I love it. I love it. It's a lot of work. And, you know, to plan that, but if you become a co editor of this bottom Sure, okay, this is going a lot of work, right? I used to play with those books too, when I have time for my nuclear physics studies, like, oh, okay, it's kind of boring. Stupid people only read this, right? But after a while, it's fun, you know, but then I'm smart, right? So if I mean, I'm gonna move to this page, I put a clip on a page before that, so if I die in the next page, I can go back and then we do that again, right? Did you ever read them? Sorry, did

Clinton Moore  33:31  
you ever read the book called The dice man, where he makes, he put six decisions about his life, one to six on a dice, and he rolls the dice, and he has to do that.

Non Arkara  33:40  
No, really

Clinton Moore  33:42  
Dice man. Maybe don't run the city like that.

Non Arkara  33:50  
Well, no, maybe it dies. It is between six awesome solutions and he all have the same price point. They all have the same ease of procurements. And they are, they all, they are run by amazing CEOs, right? So maybe you have to toss the dice when it comes to that, right? Because there's no other way around to actually engage the system. Well, I think we got it now, today,

Mayor Kanop  34:18  
yesterday, that I was throwing ideas around, so glad that can put all these together in your presentation,

the Smart City concept, like I said yesterday, I hardly use this word with our residents or our children, because it just things that we do together, okay and do together and benefit you, like the platform. Platform will benefit the city. Workers. Get job done, the same job in less time, in less resources. And do you like it or not? Saturday and Sunday, you can take your kids to a zoo if you choose a platform, but if use papers and with signatures, 10 signatures before you can go out and fix a pothole, then it takes forever, right? And your time is your precious resource. If you want to take your kids to the zoo Saturday and Sunday. Let's switch to platform, right, or else you have mountains of paper that you have to get it done. So I appeal to people interested, right? What was the most that's that you have to fight that project, the pro this massive project is very appealing and very fun to do, and it's not a burden. I usually we have 2000 city workers. When I introduce new things like a platform or Smart City project, I always tell them at the beginning and not putting stones in your pocket, but you have enough burden already, I will relieve whatever you have a backpack or additive or stone that already have your pocket out if you put more stones in your pocket, How can we create an army of 2000 city workers to work together. Okay, as a cat, 2000 cats, people, different minds, different backgrounds, different opinions, but we share the same goal, and that goal is not forced, because appeal, appeal to the city workers. You as a mommy, Saturday and Sunday, you want to take your kids to to a mall, to a zoo, right? You don't want to work. Who wants to work? 24 hours, seven days a week? No, we are all lazy. That's my assumption, that we are all lazy, right? We want a quality time for ourselves and but we have. We want to get a lot of work done, okay, to keep it pace with what the city needs, right? We are changing all the time. The kids, they are using AI for their homework, and then the teacher cannot sit still and hope that the world is still standing still, but to keep pace with the change, we do it in a fun way and then not beat stones in a pocket. So I appeal to city workers, and I also appeal to students with bad behavior or bad background, or poor students, their parents, whole family, are in jail. The reason that he's not in jail because he's He's like, he's a minor, okay? So the only hope for that one is that to bring him here, give them the education, okay? That's appealing to this group of people, and smart city is just a tool that we use. There are many tools that we we work together, right? So that's my my lessons, the experience that I have learned working together with deba and Dr non along the four years of my journey, and then got a big help from unscathed UNDP and habitat, yeah, I learned a lot great, great experience. Yes, yes. In for technical terms, I think you, you all have all the knowledge and information. I think it's a great honor that you all come to the city, so I have to give you all my best, all my performance, like Paki. Oh, you go see Paki. Oh, you will not be disappointed, because he gives you all right, yeah, he has hook, punch, whatever he'll give you. He may win or he may drop down, but you will know you will not disappointed to see Pacquiao that that's what I'm trying to do, that you honor to welcome all these special guests to our city. Yes, so I think thank you very much.

Non Arkara  40:50  
Which leads us to the last portion of this amazing, greatest ever workshop on Smart City, ever been put together in the history of humankind. And I just wanted the mayor, of course, to say a few words, a closing statement. But as you know, the work is not done at all. Right, we just started. You guys still have an hour during lunch time to come up with the outlines, and then we combine it, and then we'll figure out, you know, for those of you who will be staying here for one more night, to figure out, maybe dinner today about how we're going to delegate the works we're going to be doing what? And then we get the mayor to sign off on, how many times can we get in touch with his staff? Because we're going to be going to have to contact his staff in order to get more information to write his book. So he got to have to endorse us on that. So we're going to have to tell him, like, who do we want to talk to in the municipalities conference call, or Clinton and I can come back here again and get more information for you, but let's think about what what you need from him. So maybe lunchtime. And after that, we can, we can, you know, branch off a little bit more about what we need from the city. But in terms of formal program, the one that we get paid to be for, it's over, and I would like to ask the mayor to deliver the fun was too formal. You said fun unexpected. Please combine blessing with philosophical musing and also with some guidances for young people like us who who will have to go into the world face their cruelty of the real world.

Mayor Kanop  42:28  
I think I, I think I just finished my closing remarks. The best thing that happened last two days is that you all are here, right? Even we have a big flood, and you still make a way have time to come to our city, because I'm afraid that we have a big flood. And Dr non might not bring you all to come, but you still make

Non Arkara  43:01  
it. He was taken to one two in the morning just to observe the water level last night.

Mayor Kanop  43:06  
Yeah. So please accept my deepest very grateful that you all here like a blessing for my work to do. Thank you. Yes, definitely. Yeah. Thank you very much for coming to our city. Thank you. And

Non Arkara  43:32  
may I ask one of us to to represent our group, and thank him for for the you know what? Let's toss the dice. Yeah. No. I mean I actually, I haven't, I haven't heard Rahman saying a lot. So maybe, maybe you, thank you, Cass, you're representing the whole group, thanking the municipality. You say a few words that are not cliche, not cliche. No, no, no more cliche allowed here. Okay, you know something from the heart, yeah,

Roman  44:07  
sorry my English. Don't worry about Thank you for having us here, welcoming, giving us your effort, for coming in this meeting. So we appreciate your effort for having you here. Thank you for that. We hope to meet you again. Okay, thank you.

Non Arkara  44:28  
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Okay, so So we now we ended, formally. Ended the formal part of this workshop. Now the informal part. Okay, so we go for lunch, yeah,

Mayor Kanop  44:42  
go to the control room on the big screen, flooding in a street you see about knee level. Did you see all the kids and they're running around having fun, right? Okay, and we what happened is that two years ago, we have a very similar flood like this. And kids are, they are running around, and I pump water out really fast. One of the kids, he was, like, five or six years old, and we know the family. He he, he learned that well water coming like a flood, and it's time for him to play with water, because kids always like to play with water. Okay, so he went back to buy some stuff to like a balloon or to grab around so he can play, have fun. He came out the water because the mayor pump all the water out, and he's crying, and he's trying to find out who's responsible for that. All the numbers, okay, he's crying to his his mother. His mother was telling me the story that is her job to find that who is responsible for the disappearance of the water for her boy. So the sea flood is always bad for kids, it's a special event, because the city has become outside Singapore play so water is coming always. It's a chance to play with water.

Non Arkara  46:40  
Okay, let's thank you to Mayor again, and there we go for lunch. Yeah.

Speaker 1  46:42  
Go.

Tristan   46:48  
Selfie, photo. Selfie make it not boring.

Non Arkara  46:53  
Jumping photos well,

but thank you guys. Thank you so much. It's been, it's been a great two days, working days. Yeah, I hope you go, I hope you go, go out there and then tell, tell everyone in the world that I'll be taking with us. Yeah, yeah. We done here. Yeah, yes.

Mayor Kanop  47:18  
Actually was a chance to work in the conference of meeting with different mayors. Yes, many.

Clinton Moore  47:34  
I was you.

