Mayor Kanop  0:01  
Acceptable meals on the platform, 15 days on paper, or 48 hours on mobile phone. Which one you like? Okay, you pick.

Let's work together. Very easy to use, like a Metaverse classroom.

This this name. Parents, Grandpa, Grandma, don't have to know about technology. They don't need to know and they don't want to know. The only thing that they know is that if the kids use this technology, their test score will be higher. That's all they care. So I provide them what they need, what the benefits? If they you hit the right spot, the benefit for them, they will agree if they agree, as a politician, I follow my voice. Okay, so that's my view. I think it's a little off, but I think you come here for something,

Non Arkara  1:21  
or are you coming in here for something conventional, then I don't have to worry about you anymore, Tristan, because you come here

Mayor Kanop  1:31  
for very long distance on the flight to you as much As I can want to know this or that, or a control room

two minutes, control room that we condense it in a mobile phone, so I don't have to go to control room that's in the program.

Non Arkara  2:00  
We're going to go to see control room too. Yeah, at three in the morning, in

Mayor Kanop  2:05  
the morning, I broadcast what happened in the border level up in the mountain by me sitting next to a city worker and a pumping station. February. At this moment, we have around 170,000 views.

So answer and then use a scale. You don't need a

Bangkok can do it. We can do it. We can do better than Bangkok. Why? Because we smaller. We are more flexible. Can you have a bank of Governor sitting next to a city workers or sitting next to a crazy people or not? No about money now Manila, because he's overseas, like the millions, right? But we are small fish, but we're quick. We can kill big fish, flexible with the technology is big AI. AI is a we have a level field of technology right now. What happened in the US? Gemini, three is out right now,

Non Arkara  4:01  
next five minutes. So it's a level field in this era of technology, right? So I try

Mayor Kanop  4:19  
to be a small, quick, clever and flexible fish, and they can compete with the big fish because they are too big about big fish on the left or the right next time. But for me, just to lift very quick, how can you reach 170,000 views in three hours? Right and right now, people understand the situation of all the level.

Let's go to thank you very much official control room. You

Non Arkara  31:51  
Oh, Yeah, every other compliment.

Indian power. Haven't been.

