Non Arkara  0:00  
While, like, what, what impresses you over the past six hours we had so far here? I mean, I say six hours because it only meant that we only have less than 40 hours left to put together the outline for the handbook now. Yeah, so I wanted to kind of, kind of benchmark, you know, OKR style, you know, every, every few hours, you know, what? What do you have in mind? What have you had in terms of idea, and what have you learned so far, and what are the things that strike you so much that you you feel like this might be the kind of golden key that we are trying to build in order to make this book accessible to everybody. So maybe we go around the room and, you know, you guys share while eating, yeah, okay, why don't we? Why don't we start with somebody who want to volunteer, well citizens eating, who finished eating already? Okay? When did you start? Okay?

Clinton  0:51  
So from the mayor, it's clear that his leadership, even, you know, let's say, for example, he or the city leadership, or, I don't think you know, you don't. One thing that stood out to me was when he was talking about Google Gemini, and that before, you know, there was a clear differentiation in maybe levels of cities and what technology they had access to. But he said, you know, new Gemini is available from yesterday, and we have the access to that technology the same as San Francisco or whatever does. So, you know, cities already have access to that technology, and that just stood out to me, because maybe he or the administration doesn't quite know exactly what to do with it, but they will. They have that drive and that vision to at least give it a try. When he was talking also, I did. He didn't really talk about AI skepticism or tech skepticism too much, so I thought maybe there is still, I'm not sure about in Thailand, though, how much sort of AI skepticism there is with privacy or accuracy of data or stuff. But like, certainly now, if I get at UNDP, like, if interns give me work, I can guarantee, like, almost 80% of it is just like aI driven, to be honest. And then I think I would like to get more of a sense of the, maybe the private, public partnership stuff here. So we went to the school, and that is that government supported initiative. I'm interested to know, I think you know, I was asking about co working spaces and sort of startup ecosystem and private sector. So I'm interested to know more about that, and with the AI visitor.

You know, I was asking the mayor, do you have a city tourism office already? And his answer was, yeah, okay, it's they're feeding off each other. But there's an undeniable fact and reality that a lot of people are anxious about job losses with AI, and we've seen it with with banks and public sector in my own country, Australia, for example, and public sector and UN is definitely looking at ways to streamline services and cut costs. You know, the UN is cutting staff all the time and how that potentially so I'm just looking to see how the city is trying to understand this balance between having things like an AR city tour guide. But you know, when I worked at the City of Melbourne, we had face to face tourism volunteers around the city that still created a personable tourist, welcoming visitor experience. So that's about that's about it for now, just a few thoughts, but very clear that you need the city leadership and vision. And I think it's, yeah, it should be very well commended on his very positive attitude towards

Non Arkara  4:22  
implementation, right? Well, I think you touched upon something very important, because we've been trying to promote the city in terms of its model for Smart City promotion for the past few years, and we haven't seen a lot of cities that are able to rep to replicate what the city of Nakhon state has been doing. So the first question that people asked me was, is it replicable? Is the model here replicable, or if it's just because of one man, then it's not replicable. Then we probably shouldn't even be studying the city at all, because it's the equations are different in terms of in terms of how we can analyze it. But if it's not just one man, maybe it's just one man who can actually use some kind of psychological tools that he was able to actually do so well, to use it so well, to entice people to move, to mobilize their labor and their time, their resources, to to make things different, then maybe it's replicable. So in the sense that one of the first questions we have to answer is, what is the DNA of this Anaconda model? Somasji, right? So it's not perfect. As you can see, it's about to flood today. First time in five years it flood today. Then the things that we have been very proud of winning so many awards for would probably go down the drain with the flood, because it right. But on the other hand, we save the city from having spent 150 million every year on flood mitigation, and at least, you know, we solve that. But if this year, if things go differently, but because of climate changes or something like that, then we're going to have to come back and see whether or not we're going to need more than just manual systems that we use to get people to report. Because in some way, it's a very good system. But on the other hand, there must be faster with that, like automation and so on, right? So in a sense, well, first thing first, we're going to be trying to find out. Maybe tonight, when we smoke weed together and our minds are a little bit relaxed, we're going to be asking questions, is the model smart city here applicable or not? The Weed part was a joke, by the way. Then we got to try to understand better. If it's applicable, what are the DNAs? What are the steps and at the end, can we actually do it? I'm going to ask everyone of you that, with your resources in your city, what would be obstacles, and I think that would be a good groundwork for for what to do in terms of this very good book that we are putting together. Okay?

Minda  6:33  
Minda, yeah, I think it's the same for me. It's it's for this case, because he is very, hands

Non Arkara  6:49  
on handsome. Oh, hands on, okay, okay. I mean, I don't just, you know you can find him attractive. It's fine. It's okay. Then you know, you from the south,

Minda  7:01  
change the bar by him. Tolerate these people.

Non Arkara  7:04  
You want to go change the bar with him? Okay? So I think it

Minda  7:13  
won't work if it's not because of his leadership and his ability to bring his

Non Arkara  7:21  
people mobilize to

Minda  7:24  
go his way. And secondly, he she's mindset is always about helping the I mean people centric, especially the needy one, the old people. One example is that he know how exactly how many family that he need to go from quite a to point b, not senior citizen. So he thought so. When, when, when he designed this plan or initiative. He always have this in mind based on the GD one, and he utilized that two children as a volunteer to help, because these people have the grandson. Granddaughter is the one

who teach the grandparent. So I can relate this to

inshallah as well. You see our premier is, is the top down right? Our Premier is everyday talking about good thing about his vision, which is very good. Now, people are, you know, even from West nation, they, they look at that, look, look up at us, saying, Hey, your premier is very good. But somehow it lost somewhere in the management and a lot of initiative. This is hard too, but a lot of initiative are not done properly. So sometimes it's done just on the basis of implementing technologies,

Non Arkara  9:01  
part of problem, or, yeah, bureaucracy and yeah, so it makes it very difficult.

Minda  9:11  
Some, some, some successfully, and some yeah, that's, that's how

Non Arkara  9:21  
I Okay. Okay, so it's still pretty much the leadership that is important, right? The two other things that we haven't talked about was, was okay, he's a charismatic leader, very easy going and Down Down to Earth. But is that enough for for him to be able to mobilize a lot of resources in the city? Is it anything beyond that, right? In the sense that we were talking a lot about incentives, you know, if the app or if, for instance, if I have to, if I work for him, if I work for him, and once the app is deploy, I used to work four hours a day. App deploy, I have to work 10 hours a day now, because people can report so problems so easily. Now, what would be the one, the thing that incentivized me to work 10 hours as opposed to four hours, right? Salary? Come on. You all know salary is really low for government anyway. What else? Titles can we actually get recognizes for the work that we do so well that maybe the promotion in the workplace itself is enough of incentive to drive people to do more work, or is it something else, or is it that it's so embedded in the culture of this place that they want to help each other? I mean, that would make the model even more unreplicable, isn't it? But at the end, our goal is to find what is it that we can replicate and what is it that we can build on, on top of? Because I always believe in this concept called steal and improve, because I'm actually an architect by training, and I don't believe that architects should always come up with new ideas, because with new ideas means crazy looking buildings, right? Which will leak all the time, right? Which will, you know, sometimes they build some kind of a overly cantilever beams that looks like it's floating, but that beam itself can, you know, it's cost a lot of money, which could have been used for something else. So in a sense, I'm more pragmatic. I believe in that, that if we find something really useful, all we have to do is to steal it, right? But if you steal it directly, then you're gonna have to face the law. But if you still improve upon it, then you don't have to face the law, because you actually make it on your own IP and that's why I consistently travel to see what's out there, so that I can help Thailand save some money in terms of reinventing the wheels, if you don't have to. All right, okay, so we got some some I mean, my AI is working all for us right now. So we got some more ideas and the summary gonna go into your your Whatsapp group, which you're gonna have to read before you go to bed tonight. Okay, because I believe that that you can actually bring in all the information that you want to process into you, in to your dream, with you, and then, and when, when you're dreaming, you might be dreaming about this project, and process, when you get under one, you will have a project for us. Okay, just kidding, you guys, yeah, so serious. You know why I'm a jokester, you know? You know tuition, and I just know it doesn't he's been, he's been seeing my stand up comedy, right? It was really good, really rude, very profane, very, very outrageous, absurd, sexual, but also very funny. Okay, Farah, your turn well as an architect by

Farrah Eriska Putri_FTUI  12:16  
training too, I agree with you that we, there's no new ideas, right? But also you couldn't replicate buildings and inside, because there will be different complex so we we could see here. Also, I agree with the first two comments. That is the leadership that actually the most important. But however we put still

some of the ideas from this word, the major party with this smart cities,

there's like some where he knew the problem is the most important. He knew the problem. Because I saw smart cities, they actually like top down ideas from the government to make something big, but at the end of time, people would be left behind, is what happened. Right? If you see the Arkara, you have, I think there's more informal people than the formal residents in the apartment, so they definitely will be left behind, also older people who couldn't use the smartphone and everything. And I think

the neighbor was really

amazing in collaboration with the people, the parents, the teachers and

they invite the collaboration to serve the older people. Who knows exactly what maybe the elderly is correct, what to do to them if Americans happen. So I think the most important one is we have to know the real problem. So it doesn't matter in Bangkok or in Japan, as long as we know the problem is, it is that this need to work, even though the leadership is different. Have to make sure we work on

Non Arkara  14:11  
the real problem. Okay. Well, yeah,

Farrah Eriska Putri_FTUI  14:15  
it doesn't need to be like big or grand ideas, but it just need to work,

Non Arkara  14:21  
right, right? Well, I mean, we were at the school earlier, and, I mean, I was talking to earlier that when they started that project, one of their KPIs, the main one was the performance of the students, right? If you have a state of the art lab in your city, you should be able to measure whether or not your students are learning better, right? And there are so many standards, like pizza, which is something we widely use, whether your students are good or bad compared to the rest of the world. You use this pizza score. But on the other hand, you realize, is that, well, I mean, is it really that correlated? As in, have a good lap and student will get better scores, right? If that's the case, then equipment is everything. But then we also know, for many cases, that some school have really good lab but students are too stupid, right? And that's because there's something else that was actually more important than just facilities. And because of that, they actually shifted their KPI from performance of the students that can be measured by standardized test score to actually just engagement, because the hypothesis is quite simple. If you can actually make student love to come to school, well, you think that's a high chance that they will be, they will be doing better in school too, right? So when we shift the mindset from from measuring the performance, which is kind of arbitrarily, because we could have facility, but student can also go home and get get their own private tutors in a traditional way, and they get good score anyway because of the private tutors. Nothing to do with the labs at all, right? But what we can measure at the lab is how much time the students are actually learning positively in the lab, right? We can measure it. We can we can also qualitatively analyzes it with students walking around and look at some behavior patterns and so on. And these are the things that we believe wholeheartedly that it will lead to higher performances in terms of how how they do in school, because they're more engaged with the subject matter they wanted to learn from within, and they have the kind of internal logic that kind of drive them towards becoming a better student. But we don't know, right? But the first thing, first is that they actually find a real problem, which is engagement. Student come to school and they just want to get out of the school as soon as they can, right? But now they come to school and they look at the lab and they'd be like, Well, why don't I just stay here until until the lab closes? Because it's definitely free, and second of all, definitely much more fun than going to department store and just spend money on some level wood offs. So that is the engagement kind of way that the city started off with. And I think that's also can be some of the key ideas in our book as well. Like you know, why are we looking at something that is a result oriented, but at the end that result itself is not clearly correlated with the with the setting that that you have built? Right? Because, you know, school itself, it should be making students learn. But how do we measure the learning? Well, you can measure by the test score, or you can measure by engagement, but usually happier students are students who are engaged, right? Because a lot of good students who give score really well. Some of them are not happy at all because they were forced to study rather than study, because they wanted to do it from within. So that's something that we can look into as well. Okay, why don't we? Okay, we go to we go to city, and then we'll wrap around this side, and you guys from deeper team and the con team. Can also tell us a little bit as well what you think so far, unless you've been on your phone most of the time, which case you might not know, but I believe you've been listening, so we're going to ask you as well. Okay, but why don't we go to see if you can please use the microphone too?

Farrah Eriska Putri_FTUI  17:36  
Yeah, yesterday, I managed to visit to walk around the city solo, so I found it very safe, but I don't see any CCTV, but I feel it's quite safe. So when I meet Mayor this morning, then I think we know why, not only because of the CCTV, but also the people. And then, of course, the leadership of the mayor itself, himself, who is very humble go down to the earth, is superb. And it his, his unique value that he has not all mayors have this kind of down to earth, down to us to look for the problems and so on. And then whether what they have here can do it replicate to my city, I will say we have almost the same, almost the same what we have. Just the different is, I find out the difference is, of course, government policy is different, but yet it's replicable. Okay, like pilot, maybe they have they can kill, they cannot put two seats of the dog and whatnot, but we can, although we have a different law and so on. But the technology application is replicable to my city and as well and platform for the complaint request. Everything is almost the same, but how we want to approach it, to community, to use it, let's make this city is better. So for us, how to get people to make use of our apps. Everything is a challenge for us. That's what I find.

Non Arkara  19:31  
Okay, okay, so what I hear from the first four participants is that it's still back to the leadership, back to charismatic leader who was very cosmopolitan, very good at communicating and very good at easygoing, good at talking to people, and so in a sense, okay, we tried again, you know, right? We got to try to find other reasons. Okay, okay, let's, let's, let's. From now on, let's let's draw the line. I think we got enough of leadership aspects as the contributing reason by smart city solution here seems to be working better than elsewhere. So beyond that, is there any other reasons? Well, maybe I'll start from from system, and we'll go back to colleagues over there, so you cannot talk about the mayor anymore.

Tristan   20:21  
Yeah, him with you earlier. But okay, so one thing that I think it's good that we're stopping that topic about, yeah, it's quite unique. He was a

Non Arkara  20:33  
steward, improved. Yeah. So

Tristan   20:35  
my question now is, I think it would be really helpful for everyone here, because most of us, when we go back, we're not really mayors, right? I mean, we can be the second next to the mayor, or, I don't know so, but it would also be, perhaps interesting to see these people who are feeding him this information. I know you guys are also working with him, right? You personally, so, but does he have, like, a specific team or office here wherein these guys or this office always like throw some ideas to him, what's what's out there in terms of, like, new technology? I mean, how his support group trying to affect these changes or adopt this technology in his city? I know that he mentions that he gets a lot of feedback from the public, but it would be interesting to see also, where do people like us? I mean, I work as a employee in the city. So does he have a unique team as well as unique as him? Or is it really all him? Like instinct? Instinctively, he's like, he's quite unique, and he picks up very fast. He's charismatic, whatever. So, but I don't know, would you know now? So basically, it's my that's my question. Now, like, he can't be that great, right or easy. So does he have this team, or compare to me? Maybe not that great,

Non Arkara  21:59  
your support team. I mean, I would say yes, yes and no, yes, as in, as in, he does have a team called smart city officers, right? And this is a team that that you see wearing the smart city officers jacket, right? So these are the people that we train, and Deepa train, okay, right? Because we know for a fact that he doesn't, he cannot do it alone. You need a team, right? And the team needs to understand the basic basic concepts of Smart City, the basic concept of ICT and and systems, and, of course, the basic concept of how to procure differently, because when you think about procuring roads and hospitals, you know you can, you can go check whether or not the buildings there or the road has been built. But when you want to do procurement on something like cloud application, you can't touch it. You can't really measure whether or not it is as good as you expect it to be. How you measure how fast, low latency as promised, things like that, right? So in the sense, there are actually way to measure that, so we have to train them on how to measure the the the efficiencies and the results at the same time, fix this problem along the way. Right? So what we tried to do, what the mayor was saying at the beginning, he knew for a fact that he could actually ask his team, he have ICT team to just do an app for the city, but he know for a fact as well that if it's built in house, it's going to be very inferior to the one in the market, because the ICT staff here probably went to school back in the 90s. I guess they can develop some apps, right? But it's not going to be well patched in terms of cyber security. It's not going to be well designed in terms of UI. It's probably going to be really ugly in terms of UI, and it's going to be very, very inefficient in terms of improvements, because there's not much of incentives within the municipalities to structurally change the ideas of people on how they work, to be more innovative. So that's why he brought in private sector startups to be, to be, to be precise, to work with his team on build, on setting up this app, and for the first few years, he's been using the app from the private sector almost religiously, and the reason was because he wanted his team to be learning how the app operates, so that one day, if you have to be independent from the private sector that provides the app or he provide better options, he could shift as if he's his agnostic, rather proprietary. So he's been working. He's been building a team with us, helping training, and he's also been incubating and capacity building for his team, using the work of a private sector as a way, as a vehicle, right? So for instance, if I if we procure via bus in dawah, for instance, these guys are not going to be only providing you with the system. They're going to have to come up with 60 hours capacity building program on how to fix problem when they're not there with you in dawah, right? Or, you know, if there's a problem that happens, and Institute you don't really know how to handle it, and then the staff itself haven't understand that do that either, because they're not on the site. You have to be the one who tackle that question and a problem. So those 60 hours of training might be able to transform the capacities of the municipality offices into some someone who can do more than just normal stuff, traditional stuff.

Tristan   25:20  
Maybe me, personally, maybe that's something that I'd like to see more, to know more how to put up that mechanism, or in because honestly, in my city, the city government that I work in, they all know me. Ah, he's the smart city officer. But you're correct, when I walk around here, everybody's a smart city officer, right? So maybe that's something that I can see, that

Non Arkara  25:43  
you see, these are real mastery officer, because I trained him. He's not, he's a fake one. Okay, the real one got the jacket, the fake nothing in there, right? So it doesn't, you know if you can standardize the processes, Hey, um, you know, we all want everybody to be smart the officers, right? And if you're too young, we call you smarty ex. You know that's the mayor I present in the morning. X mean, Explorer. So you're not, you're not old enough to be smart the officer. You can be helping the municipality in terms of going out there and teach your aunts and uncles how to use the app. You can be smart to explore. Explorer, Smart City x, and we give you a t shirt. It's master x as well. And then if you're actually doing really well, we also partner up with a lot of companies to provide, like, free iPad, free laptop, you know, to these kids who, who, you know, rack up like, you know, 700 people that they taught how to use the app, right? You know, we'll give them iPad, and we get iPad for free from our vendors. So there are incentives, you know, back to the same questions, like, Hey, you want people to change their behavior, instructions are not going to be as good enough as incentives anytime, you know, instructions always, always lose to incentives, like, if I want you to procure some good projects, you know, and then, but you know, we all know that our salary level is here. You're going to get more. And by the way, you know your your senior is already in the higher position, so your positions is not going to be available to get promoted. What is it for you? What is it for you to make my city better? Yeah, are you that great? Are you that like, nice person? Thing? Is we all nice? But if there are more immediate incentives, it can push you really far. That's, that's the argument from a psychological studies, right? But good question. You know, if you asked him, he would have, if he can, if Naka si tama is an independent city, as in, like, it doesn't have to, like, Mala or, you know, money doesn't have to be sent back to Bangkok. So much, I'm pretty sure he would build his own, you know, Smart City ninja team, where he hired all the young people, rather than letting them go to Google or Microsoft, hire them in house and work on projects. But of course, in the structure of local government, he can't do that yet, so he still have to rely on those that he asked, which are not as robust as a private sector, who've been in the market and will actually understand the mechanism better.

Ramon?

Ramon  28:05  
don't know how to start this podcast, if it's okay to just tell the story same system that they are using to our show, so they involve the students, the elderly. So we have the same system using in Manila, which is, so,

Non Arkara  28:25  
yeah, I think, you know, you usually microphone make that kind of sound because, because it's closer to another microphone, right? So it sounds like when it's not even closer to this microphone, but close to you, maybe it recognize your hair the same as microphone. Anyway. The point is,

Ramon  28:42  
I the system they have is they involve the constituents, the students, the elderly. So we made a same system. I made the main system for our city to track all the vehicular accidents this type in real time, our responders is, once they we receive a call, they respond, then they transmit the data to us. So we do it for three years now, so we find where's the hot spot of the accidental areas. So we have a place like seven, six to seven road accidents per month. Then we, with the data, we we renovate that area. So with that, the case is down to just zero to one in a year. Unlike before, that's six to seven per month. So it is a data driven decision. That's why I'm amazed that the mayor have a data first. Before you make a an AI, you need to digitalize. For you to digitalize, you have a data. So I don't know how what data they come up to produce that AI thing that they have here. So same with the transportation system that they are talking to me, Unity data, yeah, I'm the one responsible for the digital decision of Manila. So we are just starting to digitize the Manila for for AI system. So I want to adopt what they are doing to involve, to involve the citizen. But the problem is, how can I convince the citizen of Manila to implement the system that we are going to share with them, to get the data, then that will be used to become a smart city.

Non Arkara  30:54  
Okay, well, we will get to that. I think, I think we will get to that. But so far, you see, right? I mean, all the system that he that the city has been building, all the data, is actually they collected by themselves, right? So for instance, if you wanted to know, as is today, how many problems are out there in the city, well, just like in chapter 12 that you read, right? So what he did at the beginning was, was to ask all the citizens to share the photograph of problems, and overnight, he got tons of problems sent to him, and we talking about 2022 right before AI became available. So we have staff look at all the files, and they can extract geographic information, they can extract timestamp. But when it comes to the quest the problems, they still have to look, oh, this is a flat problem. This is a pothole problem. This is the problem with the participant walk and so on, so forth. And then after that, they start to categorize them. And then they start to see patterns within, within the maps. I mean, if there are routes whereby a lot of articulate trucks have to pass by, very likely that are going to be lots of potholes, because these trucks, they were they were allowed to load 35 tons, they probably load 40 tons, and therefore the roads get dilapidated. So so these are patterns that can actually be seen through through data, and they that's why they didn't have to collect a lot the data. Didn't have to go back 10 years ago. They have just have to collect data, as is, in order to understand what are the conditions and so on, which is we're going to be very different compared to if you were working on disaster management. That's when you need a longitudinal data, because pattern is in the the loop whereby natural occurrences actually leads to certain things like earthquakes or flooding and so on, right? So they're looking at mainly digit real time data, but it's not real time yet, right? Because it's not from the kind of camera directly, but still, latency, still, and also when people send problems to the cities, definitely not real time, but it's real enough because it was sent by the people who actually perceive the problems on site, and it was able to actually identify the locations and the nature of the problem. So clearly, within the use of digital tools whereby you snap a photo and the photo contains the information with that it can easily be extracted in terms of data in order for the CCD to analyze. Yeah, so that's why they never have a problem with not having enough data, because they can always decide it to collect by themselves. Yeah, it was just very different for many agencies, whereby you know, if you don't get permission, you don't you're not going to do it right? I think what the city has been doing, what we've been doing at Deepa too, was that, well, sometimes we just have to do it first, because if we get asked for permission, it's easier to get the no than yes. But if you actually do it first and you succeed, then even those people that want that you have to get permission from, probably want to get their names on that project too. So it's become automatic. That That project will get a yes. But if you don't prove anything from the beginning, you were asking for permission only, trust me, it's easier for civil superior to say no than to say yes, unless it's him, right? Then you get a different kinds of leadership. But that's the that's the area that we're not going to talk about anymore, because it's already done. Deal that we know that we can't. We can. We can still press on that a little bit more. But at the end, we wanted to understand what is the replicable aspects of the smart city here in the con that we can actually learn from each other, okay, whatever applies it all to my junior colleagues and, of course, and being as well, yeah, you remember the questions like, I mean, from, from your perspective, as somebody worked here for years. In addition to the fact that you have a great leader, what are the reasons why system and solutions here seems to be working better than other people than other cities?

Peem (NST Municipality)  34:32  
Okay? I think in my perspective, the mayor also si admin, of each division that will take the problem like when, when citizen send the problem to through the city app, the problem will be sent directly to The admin of each division, as when they are sending the program their category that they have to click, and when the citizen click each category, it will be sent directly to the division. And also, so it's easy for the mayor to follow up the problem. If the problem came too long, the major can ask directly, what is the problem? So admin have to tell the major, as they manage, they will send the problem into their division to manage further problem and also in the first day, there are not so many people that do the conctf, how the mayor make the people use a lot is we post how we solve the problem through the Facebook like we post every day, when the citizen send the problem, that the problem can be fixed in 48 hours, but the citizen that come to nako city to write a complaint paper, it will be slower, as they have to go through each of the head. It have to go ahead of the complaint division and come to clerk and come to Deputy Mayor, then come to Mayor to execute the complaint problem. So it will be take a lot of time to solve the problem. So we like we show the citizen directly that it is more easier and faster for the problem to be fixed through the app and yeah, and the major at the first the major, fourth meeting for the F meet of Each division every week, so he follow up the problem every week. So if right, the admin for E division will have to they, they have to work really hard because the manager will follow up every week. Yeah,

Non Arkara  37:24  
it, yeah, okay, so, so he's alluding to the monitoring services. Well, the monitoring processes, right? Because you can have, I mean, in Bangkok, for instance, we they have a really robust app that can, they can do what, what the app here can do, which is the reporting problems. But the problem with the app that they use in Bangkok is that they actually have really good apps, but then the people who actually actually take the problems and go fix it's not the same as is this team, right? And what I found out from the mayor of Bangkok was that the differences is that here they actually build the incentives into the system. So if you happen to be very good at your job, like, you know, you go fix potholes, and you fix it so quickly, many times a year. I mean, the whole year, you anytime they, anybody report, probably potholes, you go and fix and solve them in almost 40 hours. In all cases, then you're going to get a lot of stars from the residents, not from the citizens, not from the mayor. Okay, if you report a problem, you get, you keep the star to the one who fix the problems. And what I understood is that at the end of the year, who get the largest number of stars, who get promoted, right? So the whole systems of how the people here get promoted is very transparent, right? It's no longer you know whom, you know whom you lobby, right? It's more like how many stars you get, and how do you get star? Well, you go out there and fix problems, and if people really love how you fix problem, you get five stars. And you keep repeatedly get five star many times, the pattern of your becoming the superstar in terms of fixer and small officers would go higher, and at the end of the year, top five or top six would get promoted, right? So it's kind of a internal systems that incentivize people to want it to work a little bit harder, because it's, it's good for themselves, right? Everybody want to get promoted, in a sense, yeah. But he also mentioned about Facebook that's also very, very interesting, because in the past, nobody knows who's doing what, right, even those guy who's out there right now fixing problem with flooding, nobody know their names, nobody know, know their faces, but the Facebook page has actually helped these guys become heroes of the city, right? Because once it's posted, you know, people know that these are the guys who actually keep keep our city dry, keep our city from flooded, and therefore they're actually the people who actually should be, should be, applaud, and then Facebook groups actually make everybody who are doing the real work heroes of the cities. So in a sense, it's also intrinsic and extrinsic forces at play. And this is all by design and not by default. Okay, not in good view.

Nat (depa)  39:54  
So I'm not sure it's gonna be good for the handbook or not, but it's like, actually, it's like, my second time here in the first time is back in last year, August, I come here, like, with a project called Arbi. It's called Living Museum, like the phase two. I come to, like, just continue the project and give them the new technology or something. The telling that I know is, like, actually, this, this city has really good at the data corrector. Because, like, after, actually last year, I heard this presentation from the mayor already, already heard this one before. But this time is different, because the data is really rich right now and like then he can utilize and fix the program before it even got reported or something. So it is quite amazing for me. But the thing is, I think, is the reason learned, for me this time is not about the thing about the city, but it's about the thing that I should or I should bring back to my office. And so my boss that we are not the leg curator, we are the promoter. So the thing we should do is, like to promote the city, or to help them, like accomplish something, not like to recreate them. Because, like, now in our office, like we are the central government, and we have, like, a we have a very less budget compared to another one. But yeah, this time we got more project and we got more budget. But the thing we do is, like, we try to make them struggle with something, writing something, and request us to do like, some solution. Actually, should be asked that come to them and give the solution to them, not to them making for us. So this thing is thing. It like, yeah, if I have a chance to talk to my boss, we this thing could be the first thing I'm going to talk to them. Yeah, hey, we should go to the city more often, because we always heard about the from Pinot me, like I was saying to the group, like, hey, we just want this I want we just want this one. And everybody's like, what's so good about the conceit come around is like, is there any city better than this one then, and after we come here, we saw that, yo, yeah, it's good. Because like, yeah, the mayor know what to do, and that's where the star is already, what not, they know what to do as well. And the thing is, like, yeah, it's good. What about us? Like the bar, what should we do then? I think the thing is that we should do next phase is like, yeah, we come to the city, we talk with them, we help them, not, not try to make them feel uncomfortable with our report anymore. Just like, if you want to handle them, just come to them right? Because, like, yeah, I come here and they say, yeah, why don't like that one of the third award or something. Because, like, this year, we have called something called index. And we like linking all the city. We have 23rd, 20, no, 3060, thing now, and we linking all of them, the smart city. And the first thing right? Is like, not the one of the third or something, but after becoming a Yeah, I think the process here is quite good compared to the other one. Why not? They just wonder about or something. So I think it's like, yeah, it could be good for our maybe someone who work with the central government or something, we should come and look at the city, not just like, send me the report, because the report can lie right, or even not, like, maybe they just want to, don't want to do that. They just copy from the previous gear and copy players, and then just add the KPI or something. So we cannot see the real situation here. So yeah, it will be good to be here. And I hope, like, I can use this lesson, or maybe just the handbook, to tell my boss that, Hey, we should come off into the city to look at them and to help them, like, as the promoter should do, yeah, that would be all for me.

Non Arkara  43:16  
Well, you can get it all out, you know. Treat this as your therapy session, you know what else about your boss you don't like about her? Tell us. Tell us everything. Just Just a quick one. So what happened? What could not was saying is that our office in Bangkok, we were supposed to be a promoter, whereby anyone call us, we go there and fix problem or help them, just like chapter 12. That's what that's our role supposed to be. But because we are also giving out the smart city statuses. So if nakashi Tamara, for instance, have passed our criteria, we'll give we'll give them a, you know, trophy, saying that you are our Smart City and now it seems as though that's our only job. Like everybody kind of come to us and apply for these smart city statuses. But then, after a while, we were talking, are we just processing paperwork? Because applying for smart city status is just paperwork, right? Paper coming in, you have to read them. You have to, you know, point out. And this is not true. Okay? This is true. And then the whole day, the whole year, passed by as a smart city office of the nation, and nobody ever got out of the office even one time, because we were all looking at paperwork that get sent to us from other cities who wanted to become part of our ecosystems. And that's defeats the purpose, because we only have like 10 people in our team, and most of us are busy with the work that we have to do at the headquarters. What about 7000 municipalities across Thailand, if the main agencies are only working on on applications and paperworks, who are going to be doing the real work on industry? I mean, that's what he was trying alluding to. That's why he hate his boss so much.

Wirawee (depa)  44:58  
Okay, so basically, everyone has respond to what's in my mind. But what I just want to

Non Arkara  45:07  
share is everybody have bad bosses.

Wirawee (depa)  45:10  
Yeah, this will keep funny in there later. Last two weeks, we have palette Smart City Expo, and they are one guy reached me, and they asked, What is a smart city?

Non Arkara  45:23  
Yeah, wait, wait, wait, one guy came to you, yeah. Ask you, what is smart city? Yes, he's hitting on you. He just doesn't want to know anything you want your number.

Wirawee (depa)  45:38  
He just a lot more people who heard about before in Thailand, and he said he was a nomad. He traveled a lot around the world. He's

Non Arkara  45:47  
definitely hitting on you. Hey, what is this master key? I'm a nomad. I roam around freely. Freedom is my middle name.

Wirawee (depa)  46:02  
Okay? Even talk about society. I think everyone in this room know what it is, right, but in but for many people, they don't know. Sometimes, when we talk about smart people thought about or we have to have a CCTV in every corner of the city. We have AI. We have something flying or maybe a robot walking around the room, but to me, I think gives a good case of what is Samar. I mean, somebody maybe just like, respond to what people in your city want and respond to the issues. Yeah, and like this time we found flooding, yeah, compared to my city, we also knock on, but it's the connecting province to Bangkok. But if you went there, you got a surprise of how different from Bangkok, we have no public transportation. We have flooding in many years, but our local government have never planned what to change the city or think about how to improve the quality of life from people. Yeah. So I think after this, I just worked in SWAMI city for nine months, and I have learned a lot from this kid, and have learned many things from you guys and walking on as well. So I think after this, I may I have the ability to consult the city as well. So sometimes the staff asked me, Can you consult me? Or can you promote something? Or can you give a case of what is smart on other cities do? I think they can search on the internet, but what they have to ask, and maybe is latest question says, on my mind, is, what is the city and people really want? And if you have a plan, can we plan that we think about everyone, we don't leave anyone behind, and how we drive the city to be more sustained for the future? Yeah, maybe this is my point of view. Thank you.

Non Arkara  48:10  
Okay, well, that's a good question. I mean, do people call you guys up like your citizens call you up for what? Complain usually, right? Complaints? Have they ever call you like, Hey, I just wanted to tell you I saw the road that you just built. It's beautiful, and

Tristan   48:26  
it just last week. Really? No, yeah, just a

Non Arkara  48:30  
great use of the taxpayer money, and I feel I want to pay more tax to you guys, because it's road has been used so but I think what, what could you mentioned also could not as well. Is really true, because our agencies, and I think many of you agencies, are pretty much similar, that we have the responsibility, right, and people look up to us, we probably doing a little bit better than any other agencies in terms of PR, because we spend a lot of money on publicity, so we're pretty well known. You know, we design our graphic identity, we have our PR team doing right? Our Deepa is, like, really well known because we spend more money on PR than on actual projects. But again, because of that, people look up to us, and they were hoping that we can help you can help them. But the problem is we also need to actually learn more, because Smart City has only been around for, like, 15 years, 20 years the term, right? I mean, the term itself, when it came out, it's not even smartest, smarter city, right? It was the project of IBM. You know, when they no longer can no longer sell a lot to consumer market, they want to sell it to an urban market. So they have this challenge called smarter city challenge, whereby any cities that come up with the problems that that they think, ICT, can help whoever come up with the most interesting problems, they will get the IBM solutions to tackle that challenge so that their city can become smarter. And we don't know what happened over the past 20 years that the term smarter has been kind of bended to become the term smart city, right? So I think smarter city is a better term, because smarter it means that we have to be in constant process of making it better. So smarter is a process where a smart city is a result. And a lot of people mistook the idea of smart city as a result, like, oh, we have to have drones, you have to have camera. We have to have this and that, then we have a smart city. No, you have to have a smarter city, which means you have to constantly monitor and try to understand, what is it that is in your domain of investable solutions that can actually provide you with the benefits that are both immediate and long term, so that your citizens can actually have immediate livelihood enhanced at the same time have a long term infrastructure built so that they can actually plan for their investments in their life and their career in the long term. So all these things would have to come together, and that's why I think smarter city is a better term. But the point is, because smart city is very new, new topic, even today, we still trying to find out what it really entails in terms of practicality, of how we work with the private sector. But one of the things that we have seen in the past in Thailand is actually the collaboration with the private sector. And this is when I'm going to segue into your sections, whereby we're going to be learning a little bit from, from you know, the colleagues from via bus and just for, just for your information, some I think we got you guys working together from, from the beginning, because I haven't, I never seen you. I never met you. Okay, it's not expanding overseas. Oh, okay, okay, so what's your name? Anyway? Sorry, Casper. Okay, so I just met Casper for the first time. But then I met in touch, I think, six, seven years ago, when he just graduated from from universities and and the first thing he did, unlike anyone who graduated with really good grades. He could have gone to Google or Microsoft or IBM. He decided he chose to actually set up his own startups and working on the most important problems we had in Thailand at the time, which was that our bus is us. Really bad, right? Bad as it, like, not punctual. Bad as in, like, low maintenance. Bad as in, like, produce a lot of carbon emissions, and bad, as in, very packed and congested. I can, I can go on right, and he realizes that he want to spend his entire life fixing this problem. And I was like, Good luck, man at the time. But then six years passed, and he's still in the business, and what I heard so far, he's doing even better, now that he even trying to get my friend here to actually use his services too. So it this is a proof that that six years of passion, desire, goal and then determinations could actually lead you to where you want it to be. But then the point of this session is that we learned a lot from the mayor in the morning, that he doesn't do it alone, right? He worked with private sector, and he he mentioned many times startups, because, well, first of all, I to him, startups are easier to deal with, because he always get to talk to the main person, right? If he uses services from Microsoft, they're probably gonna send some junior guy to talk to him, right? And they're probably gonna be lots of private startups. This guy know what's what's up that this guy know what's going on inside the systems. And this guy will take every project very seriously, because every project means very important cash flow that it can get to run the company and so on. So there's a lot of things that actually make startup more appealing than conglomerates if you wanted to work on something that is result oriented and actually process based in terms of sustainability. So without further ado, can we get the slides up, please? And meanwhile, you guys can just take the floor.

Thank you. Oh, really, this is this

one, right? No, no, this is Vinod. There's another one do you send? Yeah, yeah.

This is, this is Basha. He just didn't get to talk about it. And that's the office in Phuket. Deeper office in Phuket, yeah, if you go to Phuket, you can come visit us, our office. Yeah, I think pressure, because pressure himself. He drive Tesla, so you try to lobby for An AV charger there as well. You one, yeah,

Clinton  54:40  
it's like, oh, I have that too. It's really good to know.

Unknown Speaker  55:17  
Really deliver it to Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  55:25  
any contact about that as

Minda  55:28  
a carry on, you must have this. You get that.

Tristan   55:39  
But also we have outside of January, it's Really,

Non Arkara  56:19  
but yeah, you can, you can just start,

Intouch  56:23  
okay, so I think today is going to be more like sharing, because I think we are kind of like friends already. So I'm just going to share a little bit on what, what, what, what we do and without challenges that we face. Yes, in reality, we have been tackling this kind of problem for 12 years, but officially it's eight, okay, so it's all before the public transportation, before anything. We started this off as, like we have kind of like a small scale, which is like a shuttle bus between the universities and the what's happening university is that they have these busses that you can use for free, but no one is using it for some reason that no one knows, But the problem I encountered when just joined the universities on my first day is that I don't know where it is, so I missed the bus on my first day. And that becomes I missed the bus. So I left late for events when the school was closed, like for the university events, and some of the seniors just asked me, like, why you late on your first year? So I was like, I was late because of the busses. So I was kind of like, have a little bit of brush with the busses. So I was like, I was asking my friend, if you some of them didn't even know it exists in the first place. So we get to discuss together. Apparently it's either and they don't know what it is, or they don't want to take it because they don't know when it's coming, even though it's free and everyone can use it. So we made an application from scratch when we have a long break. So in Thailand, when you go to residues, you have a six month break. Yeah, of nothing to do. Maybe you have some events in your room, but that's it. So we made an application to originally it was planned to use our zone so that I can know where the bus is. So I don't got so don't let me anymore. But apparently, when we start launching it in the app store, so that all the friends can, all my friends who develop it, can use it as well, the friends just tell other friends that it becomes very viral, and within half a year, there are like 30,000 people downloading it, and the population of the university is 40,000 so everyone was just downloading it to use it. And what's happening is that the changes that people use the guest services become that from no one's on their station, it becomes that the station is not large enough to handle the job of people. So it's like it's so it's so long, like two times the original size that it should be. So what happens that is kind of inspiration before I make public transportation. So we opened this for two years, and we found that there are more than 100,000 people downloading it, which is not reasonable, because the amount of people in universities is only 40,000 so we got very confused on who is downloading. Are there bots or something? So the actual reality is that because the busses, the shuttle bus of the nurses, is very unique, it passed the main road to the public transportation with public train. So all the offices, all the people in the offices come to, I don't know you can say secretly use it, but they openly allows them to use, but they don't want people to use like so the studio cannot use, but people still come and use it. People around there start using it because it's convenient to travel from what from one place to like the train station so they don't have to walk for 500 600 meters, kilometers, and just know when the bus is coming. So it's become that we learned that this is not the problem for just the private transportation, but actually for the public transportation as well. Because originally, I was not born in Bangkok, but I was in non tabri and but I have to come and learn in Bangkok, which is like 40 kilometers, by the way, I have to wake up 4am July of six, with public transportation. So I have to take like three, like a van and a bus and the trains. It's crazy, but so I understand quite well on how hard it could be. So in Thailand, there is a thing, previously, there was a thing that no one knows how to take the bus, except if you ask someone on the bus stop. I know it happened in other countries as well, but we wouldn't really know, like how to take it. We have to guess on if that uncle or granny knows that going to this university, is this mall, is this number of busses? If they don't know, then we ask someone else, until we find someone and it's really hard to navigate around. So that got us starting to do what we call wheel bus to the moment, and we found that there are a couple of problems that are happening in Thailand. I'm not sure if other countries also have it, but we have a problem where first is the traffic note that. But secondly, for public transportation, we don't really have any information on it. Even the government doesn't have it. They only have, like, Okay, this is the route, but they don't have the stops. And it's like on a piece of paper, brown piece of paper, that is like 15 years old, yeah, so it got us thinking when we have started, we have started this. We have no idea how we get the data, because we try to ask from the government, because we we kind of work with them on like POC and those kind of things. But the problem we found is that their data is outdated by 10 years, so most of the routes are not used anymore, and there is no stop. So as a startup at that time, what we're thinking is very simple, why don't we just make a new information which is the is the entire bank, essentially So, but we are like three people teams.

Non Arkara  1:03:29  
So I know I was about to ask you, I mean, the first thing startup think about is that right turn pain points into products. But have you thought? Have you not thought about how to make money at all? Because everything you said so far, it was about solving your own problems, solving problems for other university students, solving problems for Bangkok. But you haven't talked a little bit at all about, you know, in your mind, have you thought about, are you doing this for free, or are you going to be making money? I mean, when did the money part comes

Intouch  1:03:55  
in? Yeah. So this is a very great part. So when I was doing this innovation, the good thing is that when I was starting is what, when I was a third to fourth year. So there is kind of no incentive by making money, because we just want to make this happen. So we just thought of how to solve the problem first, then when, when we when we solve the problem. So we essentially goes to in Thailand, there are a community called that, like bus club community. I don't know if it exists. It is right there. Like bus lovers. They will go everywhere to, like, take a picture of busses. And they're really smart.

Non Arkara  1:04:36  
Never heard of it. Never heard of it.

Intouch  1:04:39  
You can try opening up.

Non Arkara  1:04:40  
I mean, I heard a fetish, but never heard of, never heard of bus. Fetish, really, train. I can trade. I can see the appeal a bus.

Intouch  1:04:53  
Yeah, so in in Thailand, there is a bus Club, which is like a page with like 100,000 people following. It's really large, and they are really geek in this matter. Yeah, we know really, really big. So we collaborate with them. So we try to see, like, how can we scale this? Instead of us just going to survey 6000 station and 3000 groups, so we collaborate with them in confirming information trying to go on the on the outside to confirm where it is given naming. There is no names for bus stop like, what do you call it? Do you call this? This building? Maybe not, because people around them might call you another name because this building is already gone, but everyone just It's crazy, so we have to those are not

Non Arkara  1:05:54  
even, like spectacularly interesting busses are just most mundane boxes that are moving on the roads,

Intouch  1:06:01  
yeah. So, so when, when we do that, we we start thinking, after about like third, fourth year, we start thinking about sustainability, because we are grooming in we call July innovation hub. So it's kind of like an innovation center in July.

Non Arkara  1:06:20  
So July is our top university. It's like university Indonesia of Thailand,

Intouch  1:06:24  
yeah. So we started in on the sustainability and see what is the problem of this, of this thing. Because originally we we are passengers, we are kind of like a consumer, right? So we kind of take, like, all the design thinking. Thing that you have to learn is actually work, by the way, but you have to use

Non Arkara  1:06:48  
it religiously, yeah,

Intouch  1:06:51  
selectively also. So we found that is actually one of the main problem is that the owner of the bus, they didn't really know what's happening on the road, which is crazy to think about. They don't know if the bus is in the middle, if they are, if they're, like, challenging this other, if one bus is like, oh, I want to drive slow today, or something like that. So they don't really know. They only know, like, after it passed for a month, which is really bad for a business, right? And secondly, they don't really know who their customers are, but there are a lot of people who come to use right? So these are the problems that they face. So we are so we try to make a solution that help solve things. We try to look at what are the things that they know and they want to know, and what are the incentives that they have? First thing that we learn is that they have no budget for any kind of software, because the current thing they're using is this pen, and they print out like a timesheet table, then they write, oh, this bus arrived at this time, you know? Then they put it in the Excel. Sometimes they don't put they just make the report right away. And that's what we found out. So we started this via bus. So we called it end to end transit solution. So we tried to solve the entire ecosystem, because it's kind of bad, but no one knows each other. Like passengers want to come in and the bus away. Just want to take the bus out without them knowing each other. It's like you're doing a startup without knowing who your customers are. So we want it to be more connected. And we found out that there is a very bad cycle in this ecosystem where, you know, Bangkok is very trafficking, like is the worst thing that you can you can.

Non Arkara  1:08:57  
Have you been in Jakarta and

Intouch  1:09:00  
it's kind of bad. Have you

Non Arkara  1:09:02  
been to Manila? Yes. I mean, Thailand is normal for ever an hour, and I can move. We are really lucky, you know? I thought was bad enough, you know?

Intouch  1:09:19  
Yeah. So after this, we found that it's a very bad cycle where when you have a bad traffic, the bus can come on time, then the commuters don't want to take the bus anymore because it's not punctual. No one knows where it's coming. They're on time. So we left it with the consumer on real time information. By the way, the concept is really new. 10 years ago, when we started this, there's not even a GPS on the bus yet. So what we have to do is we have to buy a mobile phone for the drivers, no for the drivers train them to use which they some of them use. Some of them just give it to their wife. Then we found a bus in the middle of the village, and we're like, why is the bus here so but we want to test the concept if there is a reliability. And we found that people actually wanted this. They actually want to know when the bus is coming, even though it's not on time. They just want to know if they can do something else, or if they can choose other options instead of the bus is not an option, right? So we start a solution by creating an app called Real bus, which is one of our solutions. So at the end of the day, we made, like, a couple of solutions for the computers, for the drivers, for the operators. But you get the point, we want to solve everything, which is an ecosystem. So we made an application that is a real time app. So the point is that, okay, you can be late. You can be three hours late, because in Thailand, it's like either you five minutes waiting or two hours or three hours, sometimes six is very severe. So we just made so that people just know it in real time for everything, so that they can plan their next trip. What happened is that we the passengers, are more keen to use the bus as an option. So from previously, the part is that it's not hard, because there's too many people in the malls and it costs money. They can just take a bus, which, okay, it's in Saturday and Sunday is a little more less challenging, so they start using it. So this create a habit and create a flow, where people try, try it as an option, instead of just dishing it and try to buy a car. So this is one of the concept that we're trying to change, and it's really it's kind of working in China. So currently we have around 8 million people who is using our applications, and around one to 2 million using every month. So we kind of want to think that it is working, and we are seeing that the people who got go out of the system of the busses is decreasing. So in Thailand, we use before the train, everyone just used the bus. Is like 10 million people per month, or something like that. Yeah, it's kind of crazy, but it's just been decreasing since then, because people go to trains, people go to other transportation. People just start buying a cars and more traffics and so on. So now, so now it's slowly, slowly declining and going up for the passenger usage, for the for the busses at the moment, because we give them a choice and we give them the reliability.

Non Arkara  1:13:03  
But have you talked about how you make money yet? Yeah, no, that's a fun part. That's a fun part because it's a fun part because, I mean, I can see this app. I mean, if a city, like wanted to buy or wanted to subscribe, for the people, I mean, that's that's perfectly right thing to do, right? But for the company, if he, if he can, if the company can only rely on good cities and good mayors, wanted to do good thing for the citizens. You might not last eight years. You might not last, right? I mean, there got to be something that you have in mind in terms of cash flow.

Intouch  1:13:37  
Let me finish my story. Okay,

Non Arkara  1:13:40  
I was looking for part two already! There's a Matrix trilogy, right? You know, you given too much time on the first one.

Intouch  1:13:48  
So, so another thing we found is that most people use more than just the busses. So people use more than, like, two type of transportation. So if you use, like, for example, trains, bus of motorcycles or something, and they use some mixed transportation, so we have to adjust the application to handle multi modal transportation. But we, because we come from like a private transportation background, we kind of want it to be like you can access anything that you are accessible to, because private transportation is, like, a really good way to use also, right? If you have, like, a perks to use it, and sometimes you have a perk, but you don't really know. For example, in Thailand, not many peoples know that you can use free mall busses to server malls. There's a busses for condominiums, for offices, hotels, hotels, conference, yeah, conferences, there's people usually doesn't know about you, unless,

Non Arkara  1:14:47  
like, I know, I know all the money I'm cheap, I know.

Intouch  1:14:51  
So, so we created that So brands or private shutter bus can also use this solution as well. So it's public, private mix within the application, you have this in Laos, yes, yes. We have this because I've never heard anything. We just, we just started on at the beginning of the year, so maybe you haven't heard

Yeah, but like, now I don't know. Like, no, no, I do have Laos is like, I don't know anybody that uses busses. Like,

Non Arkara  1:15:24  
There is a bus in Laos? 

Clinton  1:15:26  
there is, I don't know anybody that wants to use them. No, it's like, private, because I go to Lala every month.

Intouch  1:15:34  
This is a really good point, because the problem with public transportation is to be first, because no one knows that it exists. This is the first thing. Second thing is that they don't know how to access it. And some new or old busses, like people just stop using it, and no one just tell where it is anymore. So that is become a huge problem for and you would think that bus already will spend some money to marketing or something like that, but no, they don't have budget for that.

Usually. Is this for the public bus or the new BRT

currently, it's a public bus. The BRT is currently on purpose, yeah. Yeah. So next one is, so this is like a co pop bus. This is what we made for the universities. So we transfer it from just an application to multi modal so that they can use the bus within universities, then go to use on the public bus as well. This

Non Arkara  1:16:42  
is the one that you said have 30,000 people using it, yes, but currently

Intouch  1:16:45  
it's more like 200,000

Non Arkara  1:16:46  
and this one, you're not money. You're not monetize it yet. We

Intouch  1:16:49  
monetize it as well. Okay,

Non Arkara  1:16:51  
how? how? how? yeah, when are you gonna get to that part? Man? Okay, we all want to get rich.

Intouch  1:16:58  
Okay, okay, I'm good, because I'm just going fast to your point. So these are, these are the bus operators that we have. Oh, my God, look at those busses.

Non Arkara  1:17:17  
Getting hot, getting hot.

Intouch  1:17:21  
So we covers both. We cover both, like Coach busses and the local local busses, which is like a truck bus as well. But in some regions, not every regions, we cover this, but we try to cover the most, because they are the most like fragmented things ever, because every, every truck bus is one owner, so we have like 10,000 truck bus. This is like 10,000 orders, yeah. So it's very fragmented in terms of management we all know so do things like smart transit signage. So we is because we got a feedback that not everyone have a smartphone, and sometimes people don't really use a lot of smartphones. So we start doing public soft signage with the cities, and also the signage on the bus themselves. So and it's all real time. So this side is just quite unique, because it only tells the bus that is coming. This is actually coming, and it calculates based on the tropics if it's coming or not and when it is so each time, if the bus is in the same place, it might tell you different times. So this is how you make money. This is one of the way we make Okay, okay, now we're getting it. No, we're getting there, getting to have meat. Okay, okay, so we saw also do onboard. So it's kind of like what you see in in in like Japan, where they tell you where it is, when it is and but we kind of make it a little more automated. Instead of you having to press all the station this one, you don't have to do anything. The system will just do everything for you. They will just say Next station, which can station it is. So we deploy this in busses, around 3000 of them, and we are deploying around 500 mornings here. And this is the image for in case you not sure what it is. So it's kind of like an automated

system, yes, so we make a two model. This is an original one. This is actually by a person, but this one on the right is all AI because it's impossible for us to record 6000 station, so we have to use an AI to help in terms of spelling as well in both time. Yeah. Yeah. So, and another thing we do is that we try to do the first multimodal, real time signage. So it's kind of like mix between ferry, bus and trains in like one sign, because there is a place in Thailand where you you can go to both train transportation in a very small area. Yeah. So we also make so that is more accessible for all the transportation as well, so they can know the option as well. And it's also applied for like kennels and for universities and for private, private place as well. Another thing we do is the most important thing, I think, in here is the transit management system. I think it's very important for bus operators to know, like, how many trips is actually going and how long it takes, and who is actually driving this and what is happening on the road, essentially, because most of the operators that didn't really know, or it's really hard to use, because some operators, they use the GPS. But it's not designed for fixed route transportation. Maybe it is designed for a logistic for example, or designed for a fixed route which should be on time. So we make this system so that is automate everything, and tells you, like, how many trips there are? How many passengers come in the system? Are they on time? Do Do they go according to the roads? Do they go on rope and go to like, the other roads and, like, just turn around to get more people, something like that. So we have a lot of this problem in Thailand where, where they just, like, turn around at the middle of the roots and go back to the station. So that is, this is one of the problem for transparency, for the bus awareness, and these are all in real time, by the way. So it calculates everything, when the when it's when it's finished, yeah. So we automate everything or speed. We usually work with the bus operators on what they need. This is the most important part, because each of the bus operator, for example, the government, they don't really care about profit. They care about the services. They care about image, yeah. So we have to get it, get it right for the for what they have to know, so that it is aligned to the KPI. And for the private company, maybe they care more about if it's profitable, it is sustainable, if there are more people coming to use it, if they are, if they are, if the bus is more reliable or punctual. So we created lots of many, many of the reports and functions to align with these operators so that they can actually accomplish things they want. So we we collaborate with a lot of agencies, as you can see, and we also collaborate with reserve, for example, bmta, which is the largest in Bangkok, around 3000 busses. And we also go to other provinces, like ECS to EC is quite unique. This is the one I want to share. They have a problem where there is essentially very there is a public transportation, but it's like, it's like a cheap menu. It's like, it's cheap. Me, yeah, they only have a truck busses in Thailand, so, but not many people who of the new generation use it, because they don't know how to use and so they all by motorcycles, and that's a major problem for for these areas. So their challenges is that they want to create a new routes, but they want to ensure that the new generations are able to understand and they want this kind of system and are used to using like a transportation so they started with like universities, and then go to municipalities to create a basic long term, long term usage for the transportation. And we saw so MOU with wenchian city state bus in Christ in Laos as well, early this years for the use of the green bus, which the Japanese government gave it to them. And in this we also got the awards from like Taiwan, Japan, Hong Kong, and also Forbes, and also royal cup in Thailand as well. So we so for UX drive, we got a good design award for Japan, which is, like a great dot award. But Japan is version in Japan as well. So we kind of proven that is, it's easy, actually easy to use for for the passengers. And this is one of the business model that I want to earlier. So we do what we call zero barrier collaboration with the company. So we kind of think of first when you saw my software, right? You will think like people will just buy your software, like how to buy yourself, how to buy slack. But that's not true in most of the bus operators, at least in Thailand's and in many countries, because they don't really have a budget for for ERP or software they don't usually have. They might have for excels, but that's about it most of the time. So we, what we do is that they provide premium services for both sides, for both passengers and both public operators, so that they can start on something, because if they don't start on anything, they're not going to digitize, right? So what we do is that we will do a integration with the bus companies, and then they enjoy the software and the system. And how we works is that if they want something more, if we can go on and pass on something, if they want more signage, if they want a more integrated version of the of the management system, if they want some extra features for the passengers, or some specific things we can talk on the mostly we will be subscription because it's more scalable. So we can handle both, both, like three busses to like 1000 busses as well, and we also doing project as well. So we sold this as kind of like a subscription for both passengers, we have, like, a subscription for heavy users for the function like alarm clock and things like that. I know it sounds crazy, like good people subscribing the app for alarm clock, the main reason is that so they can know that the bus is coming, or if they are sleeping on the bus, they can tell them that it's right. It sounds crazy, but this is what we asked the so we work like a slab. So we just go and Ask the Passengers what they want, and we just make the function. So those are crazy thing that's sometimes sound crazy, but they actually need it. Yeah. So these are the business model that we do, and we also adding things like trains and tracking of trains. You might think that train is punctual, but it's not actually, in Thailand, is actually frequency based, and not really punctual to frequency either. If you have tried before, there are two. Problem is the punctualities, and the second problem is that there are too many people use the trains. It's as much as a bus, for example, BTS. There are, like, I think 2 million people use a day per day, which is crazy, like a million to 2 million. And sometimes you have to wait for three or four trains to get on the train, and there's no one like pushing you like to put you in. It's you in just left and wait for the next train. So So we are starting and releasing this as well. So for a business model. So essentially, we do several we decide to do every kind of business model you can think of. So we do from B to C, like premium subscription to B to B to C, like in app advertisement. And also we do female subscription for the operator as well, as well as project based stuff for the B to B and B to G. So we are kind of a premium model where you where you can expand it when you need it, in a very friendly subscription manner, so you don't need to spend like a 10 or 20 million for for a software that you might not sure it will work. So that is how we think. Because the reason this start start because we want this ecosystem to grow. So we wanted to prove it to the bus riders that this works, and we grow up with them. If they have more bus, then they're they're more profitable, and we are more profitable. And that's the win win for both of a party, and the passenger is happy because there's more busses and more routes. So this is how we operate as a business model for for this industry.

Yeah, and, and that's, I think that is essentially what we are trying to do and what we are trying to perceive. And we also do other things like collaboration with the cities. We try to see if the information when the passengers use the application are applicable for the cities as well, for cities to know how people usually moves, for example, for example, like when people use the bus, you only see from one point to another, right? But the problem is that you don't really know where they come from to reach this point. So that's a huge problem as well for the cities to maybe, how can I draw a route that answers to these people who needs a better route or newly created routes. So this will also help the cities or the government in terms of management and regulation as well that we are trying to do for using data, so that they think that this is an application that they can, they can use, actually use the information. Because, to be honest, I'm very sick of application. They're just freeloading of buzzer readers open data, and they just monetize it, and they just gone and the money just go to them, and they don't contribute anything back. And that's kind of another great thing for the bus companies, who have to give out the information for free. That is how we think on on the collaboration, and on how this ecosystem should be working, because it's like, if someone is losing, then it's not, maybe not the right thing, not the right thing and not win, win for everyone. Yeah. So that is the story I want to share about what we are doing and what we are like, what we are trying to do in Yeah.

