Tristan   0:00  
Plan with via bus, is our city now has this truck busses or the Jeepneys that we have. So we have like 6000 Jeepneys. The consultants say that, all of them say, are saying that there's around 800,000 passengers per day. So currently, the city has this very big project wherein we're trying to eliminate all of these 6000 or 7000 Jeepneys that we have. So we're trying to replace them with 1000 busses. So when I met him in this event in Davao, so I was wondering, Why is he here? Why is he talking to me? Does he know about the project? Because modesty aside, I've talked to a lot of like so called bus experts, bus operators, operators from Australia, Dubai. So a lot of these guys came to the city and would really like to know about the the huge public transportation project that we have so for for bus fetishes, or this bus truth, maybe some traction in the bus industry about this very small city trying to implement this very big transition from the traditional public transport to doing bus system. So so when I met him, so we're sitting together, and he was trying to tell me about his company, I had the same question. So because all I heard from him was that it's for free, it's for free. So I actually asked him the same question, so how nothing's for free? How do you make money? So what he was candid enough also to share to me that indeed he does make money, and now I get a clear picture of it. They have, like, a million dollars revenue. But more than that, one thing I was really interested was that our team in the city government was also trying to develop something, but it's, I mean, I really don't know. I did not expect that a company from Thailand was well, destiny would have it. I met him, and he offered what we were trying to develop for the citizens in Davao for free. So that's why, ever since that, he reached out and and it was really also a seamless like discussion with him and together with our team, and he was also able to convince the team that's trying to implement that project in Davao. So, but honestly, I think you're also looking into that market, the bigger project. But so anyway, so we bought 10 busses, because our city now is currently at odds or not in good terms with our national government. So the big project that we have replacing all of these Jeepneys by 2023, or 2025, now, and there's no busses yet running. So that's why the city is planning to buy busses, which I think we got a delivery two months ago, only 10 busses, and I met him around that time. So we were thinking, okay, so I asked him, Are you willing to deploy this one for just 10 busses? And he was generous enough to say, yes. So the problem right now, I think, is how we really move and progress or finalize this partnership that we have, and it seems that hopefully we're trying to finalize it now. So because really, I mean companies like this, it's giving it for free to us in an unknown city here in Southeast Asia. So it's nice, but

Non Arkara  3:48  
we know that long it's a lot of rocks in there, right?

Tristan   3:55  
No more. So that's the thing. It's also going to be like the first of its kind, I think, for our country, if I may say, like having a this type of a system, because I don't know what's your if you have other clients in the Philippines, so maybe you have, but really for us, because we were trying to pioneer like a real good public transportation in our country. So maybe, I mean, you're offering it for free to us, and I'm also cheap, so we're trying to we are really looking forward to this one. It's nice to partner with companies that are also very open and honest about their intentions. So hopefully you'll make money, but I'm not sure

Speaker 1  4:48  
you're gonna find Well, look at this. Look at this. So the revenues come from, well, come from in app advertisements, right? So if the app is running and do you have enough enough buy ins, in terms of people downloading and using the app regularly, then you can help they can help them find advertisers who want to advertise to the target audience who are using these genies or busses, right? Because this is what we call growth hacking, because when you want to market, when you market targetedly to people that you know for sure that will be this group you know people who are using busses are using busses are probably not the one who got to buy Rolex, right? So you know that you're not going to advertise Rolex on these apps, right? Maybe more like ice creams or or don't do drug poster, you know, whatever it could even be the government, you know, you can be like, Oh, we want this for free. It's a gift from Thai government or together. But then on a way, you can pay them in terms of, you know, putting a poster, of like, hey, double Water Festival, whatever you can use the app. Use app to advertise, because you got to get, you know, if you have, you know, say 80,000 passengers per day. Those are 80,000 pairs of eyes you're going to be looking at the poster, which will be growth hacking, Targeted Advertisement that are better than if you were to just, you know, use billboards and scoreboards, which might not even reach the audience that you want. That's maybe the way you can, you can't you contribute. You're not paying for the app, but you pay for your public services in advertising, the important public notice to the citizens instead. Yes, yeah. And that way you might be able to do PPP, because you can't pay directly to the foreign company, because the tax rate would be different as well. You might even set up the private company that is invested by the city of dawah in order to pay the company here. And that way you actually bypass a lot of broccoli season red tapes. And if public So, if the public safety on the bus is is also a problem. Maybe a small, little AI camera that can count heads can also be using these 10 busses, and then people can now can also know how packed or dense each busses are, because the camera can tell that, hey, this bus is going to be very packed, because our AI camera that used basic computer visions already showed that there are too many hats, you know, because you just set up a camera to detect hairs, right there so many heads, which means that this Bus have 55 people, even though capacity was only 25 maybe you better wait for the next one. That we can also be putting in a system just a bit of tweaking our algorithm and getting the data from the cameras and that, I think, if public safety on the busses is one of the problems, the application itself can connect, can scale to what's your needs?

Tristan   7:20  
Yeah, we're actually doing that one. So, so the busses that we buy bought now have this passenger counters. Yeah, so, so, because this is only 10 busses that we're trying to pilot this one, so the challenge that of having only very limited busses would be like, and this will only be running in the meantime for during the peak hours, would always be that one. I mean, I'll wait for the bus when it arrives. It's full already, right? So, yeah. So we're also really would like to learn from how you guys, I mean, come up with these ideas, but because right now, so when we bought this busses, if we require the supplier or the manufacturer of the bus to install this IT equipment, which it would also be interesting to know how you guys are able to, I mean, integrate both technologies, your technology and as well as theirs. So and hopefully we also learn a lot from this partnership, not only our partnership, but in your partnership with the bus manufacturers, right?

Speaker 1  8:23  
You could get so much data, right? I mean, how many people actually get to these advertisers through the buttons on the app? You know that would prove the usefulness of the app, as in, platform for advertising, target advertising and the applications could also show us how many people are looking at each routes tell us a lot about demands, so that if you wanted to buy more busses or changing the interval so that it will come a little bit more frequently in rush hour, probably less frequently. Let me kind of say my own demand to the point because it gage number of people looking at the app, so therefore it knows how many demands will be available would need to be how many supply we have to be available to meet the demand as well. Well, this is extremely interesting. Actually, I was when you were talking earlier, I was thinking about Cushing, the city where Minda came from. I does an Cushing airport, which is the International Airport, and I was there to send someone off, and then on the way back, I wanted to try taking a bus back to the city, and there's a bus stop there at the airport, right? Airports, airports, they got to be busses. You can't expect, you can't, you can't expect 20,000 people there to drive their own car to the airport. But there will be no not in our parking spaces, right? But turns out, I was at that bus stop for like, an hour, and there's and there's no bus, okay? And then either second hour was thinking, like, should I just wait for another hour until the 111, guy, you know, old guy, he came. He's used. He looked like he's he's a common work there. So I asked him, like, Would it be busses for the next hour? He was like, There's no fucking bus. And I was like, wow, you actually speak very good English. What do you mean? What do you mean? There's no fucking busses? Oh, it's they just, they stopped running it many years ago. They just didn't. They just didn't remove the sign

Casper  10:10  
with a lot of bus stop that we go to Malaysia, yeah, together to do the observation.

Speaker 1  10:14  
Malaysia sucks. Man. Why would you leave the bus stop there when no service is available, no more. Yeah,

Speaker 1  10:31  
right, right. Bicycle, share the window bicycle, well, they're trying to remove them because, by law, they had they have to unprocure it, which means that they have to sell all the assets that are no longer used to the market and take the money back to the Department of Revenue. I don't know whether they're doing that aggressively or not, but as if Clinton still seeing it around, which means they are. They're not doing it aggressively enough, yeah, but I mean, I think this is one of the good, good ideas, because what the mayor of nekasi Tamara, you met earlier in the morning, has been doing for the past five years is pretty much this direction, right? He doesn't want it to wait for big companies to come in and propose big project with, you know, five year procurement processes and a lot of money involved a lot of stakeholders. He wants something like this, like a ninja, you know, there's a solution right there, and we can plug this into your system right there, and then tomorrow it's gonna be, I can get this out and running the mayor are kind of more interested in these types of projects. And because of that, we saw a lot of a lot of companies, a lot of startups using the constant array as a playground or test bed for their efficiencies. And usually, as you mentioned in the morning, projects that actually work here usually can scale up, because this is actually not an easy place to work in terms of geography, in terms of flooding, in terms of, you know, the difficulties of local languages. You know, as you might even notice, his accent, the mayor and my accents are very different, even though we speak the same language, which is part or English, right? So it's a lot of barriers. But if you can actually succeed here with the support of the mayor who understands why startup should succeed first, then you can actually scale up and do more elsewhere too. Yeah. So, well, let's, let's try to get this done in Dawa. Okay, that's our project now, okay, we're gonna, this is our ASEAN plus six project this year. We're gonna make this, this project works in dawah, and we're gonna claim credit for that. Okay? All right, guys, so I guess this is the you haven't seen anything yet. You want to say a few

Casper  12:27  
things, yeah? So, so I decided to help microphone. Yeah. So I decided to help in touch, because I was the vice chairman for the Thai style association for a while, and then we were trying to promote this concept of a million user because when I went to meetings Bangkok government meeting for the first time, they're like, how many startups are successful? How many startups are having more than 1 million users? So I texted the team and said, I will figure out how many startup in Thailand has more than a million users. So we decided to launch a million user award to recognize all these startups that people don't know in Thailand that exists, and then his company came up as one of the company that has more than million, 8 million users. So I told my team to let them come and get the award, and decided to not come because he said he's not a startup. I said, Don't worry, I will call him myself and then let him come and receive the award. So because he's a bit more business model was was profitable a very long time. So we know each other for a long time. So when he decided last year to start expanding overseas,

Speaker 1  13:36  
right? So he was saying that it's unfair to give him the award because he's no longer in the Junior League.

Casper  13:40  
Oh, no, no. We decided to give anyway, but I have to call him to get him to come and receive. Well, he didn't

Non Arkara  13:47  
want award because they didn't want it.

Casper  13:50  
Why? Because he said

Speaker 1  13:57  
it's like if you eating Thai durian, why we want to eat Malaysian durian, right? It's like that, different leaks, right? Even leaks,

Casper  14:08  
get him to come right, and we do the PR. So I've heard after that he's, after a while, he came back to, oh, I want to expand overseas, and that's what I've been doing. And I want to see more Thai startup expanding. So that's why we go to different places together. We went to Laos, Malaysia, and doing some of the understanding the market. And you start talking to the Grenadian government as well. So they really don't have busses at all. Yeah. That's sort of one of the ways where they start to plan

Speaker 1  14:38  
everybody right? Merced is a rose lawyer. So it becomes a

Casper  14:43  
different, different challenge where people, they start to plan for the busses, for people to use. So how can they install this tow and things like that? So we see a lot of a lot of different use cases. I think the interesting part is, actually, after working together for a while, it becomes an interesting part where we start talking to Japanese government, and one area is to help them, but the other area is to do tourism, because you already have 8 million users. So and then Japan knows that we send a lot of tourists to Japan, so we start working with the Japanese Tourism Authority, yeah. And then to say, oh, because when we go, we cannot read Japanese. So they decided to try to launch this. So then Japanese government can also use the app to launch over there and extract overseas tourist right away. That's like kind of new use cases for a lot of countries that we are finding now. So it's also increased that connectivity, yeah. So, so that has been a few things, interesting thing that we've been working and seeing together. And, yeah,

Speaker 1  15:49  
let me clarify your relationship. So are you? Are you a shareholder in his company,

Casper  15:54  
just an advisor to the company? Oh, okay, does he will call me anything related to international Okay, yeah. So when we went to Laos, we go see the president of the LAOs together, president of Laos, yeah, okay, because he was working with the bus, right, and then it was an event, or the President came, I just blocked away and talk to us and things like that. Okay, okay, so, yeah, so because, because we know that expanding overseas very hard, especially if you work in one market and do not understand the local context, sure.

Speaker 1  16:28  
Well, I mean, not now that I know your background a little bit more. You still here with us tomorrow, right? Or, okay? Because, if you know the representation from from the startup Association, is very important here, and it says you guys are both representing startups energy, because, as the mayor was saying that if you can actually get more startups, like like him or like other starter that did the app for the city to actually present all these practical provable to be effective, also also affordable and and also immediately benefiting and useful. I'm pretty sure, I mean, I can Deepak and definitely help help their startup sales, but at the same time, be looking at that scale because, because, I mean, startups business model are usually not not selling, right? They're more like as a service. So you need cash flow from different channels. You know, small little pieces of cash flow, but really coming together, it's a big, big chunk, yeah? So we have, as the mayor said, we have about 7000 municipalities, about 200 of which are cities. The rest are just kind of maybe rural area, which maybe don't need the busses yet, yeah, but we can look into expanding to cover all the urban areas, yeah, yeah. So, so tomorrow we'll discuss So, okay, thank you so much for today's guys. We gonna have to go out and get dinner now, just because the team that will be taking care of us will have to go back to the operation room right after they've taken care of us at the dinner time. So I even told them, just leave us alone. We can just go get food by ourselves. But they were worried that it rained really hard, it might be impossible for us to leave the hotel at all so we can, let's get the food now and then, you know, we go back to the hotel, and there's a lot of massage parlor, normal kind massage, normal kind, the Tristan kind of massage. I know where to go. Okay. Two hands. Okay. Two hands. Two mouth. No, just kidding. Two hands. So today I want you guys to go back, you know, and get some massage. Okay, normal one and Well, tonight, you know, maybe we reconvene and talk a little bit, because tomorrow we only have half a day to actually discuss how to create an outline for these books, so that I can start delegating tasks to each of you, to write each of the chapters, or maybe just to find information for the chapters so that I can put together using an AI. But tomorrow, within nine o'clock, until 12 or one o'clock, we have to be able to define what are we going to be doing, who's going to be doing what, and how much time do we have in order to put this together? Okay, so tonight, rest well, eat well, and please spend some time thinking about what is it that you would like to see in the best handbook on smart city ever written in the history of humankind?

Speaker 1  19:16  
It's it's okay to use AI to research, yeah, but I want the ideas to be from you, yeah? Because right now, I mean, that would be nice, yeah. I mean, like, like, well, think about the framework of the of the book first. Like, do you want it to be like a Q, a kind of book? Like, you know, every page is about, is a key risk question that people have, right? That could be one way of manual, or we want it to be like a blueprint. Like, Hey, you want to build your house. Okay.

Non Arkara  19:47  
What is a smart city? Yeah, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  19:51  
Nobody, if you, if you, if you read. I

Speaker 1  19:54  
mean, I send you two texts, right? If you just leave it a smart city primer. I mean, the first two pages I was, I was pretty much asking the reader to close their eyes and imagine what kind of cities they think of when they heard the word smart cities. And the second page, I will show the picture of what people think of smart cities. And the third page, I will show why this is not a smart city, right? So I use the spaces and line between pages of a four paper so we actually take people cinematically or from one idea to the other. Am I thinking too much? I mean, it's just a book, isn't it? But the point is, we want it to be a good one. Okay, so and again, it doesn't even have to be a book if, at the end, we decided that, hey, let's just create a chat bot, because nobody read books anymore. If I wanted someone questions about mobility, why do I have to read the whole book? And I just asked that book, then we can also create a database where the Chatbot itself is the is the output as well. But I think, I think a book is still kind of nice, because in some places, you know, they, I mean, I'm gonna go to some very far area from from Asia within the next couple weeks, in Solomon Islands near Australia, actually, and yeah, and places that like that, they still asked me to bring like publications because they don't have internet access that are reliable, and they have problems in getting access websites from overseas and so on, because fiber optics are not really that stable over there in that part of the world. So in a sense, we still need the publication, which we're going to be working together on this, and if we do it, well, I'm going to put it on Kindle Store, and if we make money, we can be profit sharing scheme.

Tristan   21:22  
Okay, so we're a startup now, yeah,

Speaker 1  21:26  
yeah, but, but that there will be no contracts, because I can always run away with that as well, right? If you make a million, I'm gonna run away. Do you not see me anymore? Okay? So, okay. So keep in mind, you know, we only have tonight and then tomorrow, half a day left, but many of you who are still going to be here for one more day tomorrow, we can still use the rest of the day but, but let's get the outline and the things that we need to do done within the formal town that we have, and then the rest, if you wanted to expand a little bit more. And you know, if tomorrow the rains hopefully stops, then we can go explore a little bit more of the cities and see some part of the sea that might also be interesting to the way we compare to our cities as well. All right, so let me, let join me, join me to congratulate. Congratulate the board these two guys, and then thank them for their wonderful information sharing session. Thank you so much. Thank you. All right, all good, maybe go around so all good, today, all good, all good. Okay, happy. Is this the best workshop you ever attended in your life? Yes, really. Well, thank you so much. I'm so good at this. Okay, so let's go eat. Okay, let's go. Do you have any announcements? The best

Casper  22:34  
part is, we're going to pay you the

premium first. Oh yeah, yeah, he's gonna be the best part For today, okay, we have like,

Speaker 2  22:52  
a Bathroom, see?

Speaker 3  23:08  
The reason

Speaker 3  23:22  
is because we the reason is because people

Unknown Speaker  23:42  
go out. It.

Casper  24:00  
Factories, come on. Yeah,

Speaker 3  24:24  
agency before we end definitely there

Casper  24:52  
it's over many

Speaker 1  25:00  
years because have you through WhatsApp because I

Tristan   25:18  
have to use this One to reverse the excess. A lot

Speaker 3  25:58  
of most dedication working

Speaker 4  26:30  
the Are the whole conference. Maybe.

Unknown Speaker  27:11  
I wasn't sure,

Clinton  27:23  
You get money

Unknown Speaker  27:29  
from Vietnam.

Speaker 5  27:40  
Always changes next year, going

Speaker 1  28:02  
To Yeah, I want a photocopy. I was like, copy back when you usually use a PhD in a new program so they can

Unknown Speaker  28:33  
use this graduate

Speaker 1  28:35  
I haven't you want smaller one, this one, one focused on any housing or like government Just like to be a second to long on school. The

Clinton  29:08  
other migration, Yeah,

Speaker 2  29:22  
you know to anything, right?

Speaker 1  29:40  
We right? Yeah, we look at it as reference, but then we recognize this whole handling that it's very complex, yeah, because these standards are set up by usually people from so they are Looking at things. So we look at that problem.

Clinton  30:21  
China, and, yeah, so, so we we have a module

Speaker 1  30:31  
on how to do with leadership and compliances. Yeah, people usually want people use, we want people to be a little bit more dynamic. They don't have to always procure hardware, or maybe they can even do something in house with the consulting support.

Speaker 2  30:58  
Finish with

Clinton  31:06  
one day, so I tried to go out there and fix it.

Speaker 1  31:15  
After that, it's still okay.

Unknown Speaker  31:31  
Nothing,

Speaker 1  31:43  
article. So it's our office, actually, who did that, And it's different

Non Arkara  31:57  
from my colleagues back

Unknown Speaker  32:10  
Employee equals,

Clinton  32:34  
high the city

Speaker 5  32:40  
together, Man together, man

Non Arkara  32:46  
together, it's fun,

Unknown Speaker  32:54  
right?

Clinton  33:20  
A new fan, which they banned.

But it's like a third of the price. No, it's not mine. But the funny thing I gave

Casper  33:51  
you my photos, so give right?

I can send you the pictures of Estonian. He just and,

Non Arkara  34:25  
yeah, he's super unicorn. Now,

Tristan   34:28  
going here,

Speaker 1  34:29  
I use Bolt (ride hailing app) every day, actually. Yeah, you know, you know how bolt can make it so cheaper than grab. Do I want to know? Do you want to know? Yes, okay, so every time anyone sign up for, for, for a system like that, like a driver, they need to background check, yeah, and background check is expensive, and Bob doesn't use to do background check. No, both. Just say, if you have grab background check, you can just sign up for both right away. So it cut costs about 20 millions a month on background check.

Clinton  34:56  
So hence why they use cheaper both. A lot of drivers use both apps

Speaker 1  35:00  
also, no. Actually, if you drive grab and then you also drive ball, if they find out that, they cancel you right away, because graph knows that they're being being piggyback on,

Clinton  35:11  
yeah, well, right, it's, it's, it's very often, so much cheaper, like,

Speaker 1  35:18  
yeah, yeah, seriously, cheap. Well, that's 20 million, but then they have to pay for the background check. It's getting distributed back to the customer as this comes

Clinton  35:25  
No, because I was just saying that in drive not banned, but everybody just uses the VPA to access

Speaker 6  35:34  
what in Drive. What is in Drive? It's

Clinton  35:38  
like totally but you negotiate,

Casper  35:41  
yeah, you used to, I'm not sure you can still negotiate.

Speaker 1  35:45  
What's the point? Well, you negotiate before you disappointed

Casper  35:52  
in real time, because I know about in Chiang Mai, it's

Unknown Speaker  36:02  
only in

Casper  36:06  
Drive is really cheap. You used to be able to negotiate, but at some point they just no more negotiation. We all get the price.

Speaker 1  36:17  
Hey, Tristan limit addition.

Tristan   36:21  
Should it be smarter city? Smarter city officer, thank you, man.

Speaker 1  36:28  
Addition, last one I've been looking forward in Australia, we still have

Clinton  36:38  
good old Uber around. Dd, dd, oh, yeah, and Ola, I'm not sure, yeah. DD was much cheaper,

Speaker 1  36:53  
yeah, well, Didi is heavily subsidized by government of China. Well, not, not, not by money, but tax credits. Yeah, so you've got enough to pay so much tax,

Clinton  37:06  
and now has Loka (ride hailing app in Laos)? Yeah, loka, loka was a good friend of mine. Yeah, there's one more maximum.

Speaker 2  37:17  
Yeah, that one I heard, I think they use it Malaysia. What is the one that Malaysia used right hailing, and another one, yeah, Maxim, yeah. I never use Maxim,

Non Arkara  37:55  
by the way. Really, I was in Kota Kinabnulu and Maxim was everywhere they said,

Unknown Speaker  37:58  
like, if the driver doesn't pass

Speaker 1  38:01  
the program. So, so it's a criminal. If you wanted to transport some weed or cocaine, you use Maxim, because the guy who brought you your car probably have tattoo all the body one eye spawn,

Casper  38:22  
because the drivers have been driving up here, because the car is

Speaker 1  38:35  
too old to Be responsible, so if something happens, right? So it's not like are

Unknown Speaker  38:44  
you willing to take a

Speaker 1  38:47  
risk of using the services like people who might have to wear a record

Unknown Speaker  38:51  
or using car from 1978

Unknown Speaker  38:55  
but then if something happens,

Clinton  38:59  
I don't know why you guys, he calls himself the UN cab driver, like he's even made his un cab

Speaker 1  39:21  
drivers. To know I would

Unknown Speaker  39:30  
use this service

Speaker 3  39:33  
for sure. Yeah, 35

Speaker 3  39:53  
so European

Speaker 2  40:16  
speaker, nine, just.

