Mayor Kanop  0:00  
We can, okay, okay, so we know what they want to go. And there's a big can already in a quick way, so we don't have to go to the house and interview them where you want to go, where are your relatives, where you want to go? So we know right before 163 but they had to make that decision. That's hard part. No one to leave the house, yeah?

Non Arkara  0:30  
So essentially, people really, really look at the screen, right? Yes. People love to actually look at it, yeah, yeah, like, with your own eyes. Because, in a sense, this is very easy for for the computer vision to replace people. But I guess psychological reason people still want to see by their own eyes that the water level is rising or not. I mean, that's perfect for numbers. Yeah,

Speaker 1  0:57  
I showed them the numbers as well. Like,

Non Arkara  1:10  
it's like reality

Mayor Kanop  1:16  
TV, so it's, yeah, okay, right now. No flooding. Okay. And then, if you want to see control room and put together, This is what happened in your mobile phone. Die. It

Non Arkara  2:14  
Oh, okay, so you are seeing the image from 23 kilometers away. This is a location where, if the water exceeds the level people on, undergraduate would have to be scared. This is up in the mountain where the water comes from,

Clinton  2:29  
from the mountain.

Non Arkara  2:31  
So, so, so this is a crisis line. It's already passed in centimeters, right? So,

is right. Okay, so from from the experiences they have that level of water you saw earlier, it would take about 12 hours to get to the city, yeah, but they know this, not by AI or anything. Just know it, because it's like this way. So history tell us about what to do within the next 24, hours,

Mayor Kanop  3:08  
10 hours, 12 hours, all the period. Make a big difference. Okay, if you have 10 hours, make preparation. What you want to do, okay, evacuate and all

Clinton  3:27  
people, if they order

Mayor Kanop  3:30  
a roof that will take, like an hours whole day to rescue them. But if you want to rescue them

Non Arkara  3:39  
in advance, that is crucial. That looks pretty silly already, right? If you look at this,

Speaker 1  3:45  
okay, this is next to the to the canal, right? Okay, water

Non Arkara  3:52  
running high rises.

Mayor Kanop  3:56  
Okay, so, yeah, make it fun. Like we are small kids (making work fun in part of the reason why we work so hard!).

Non Arkara  4:10  
the Philippines, we will come out and sing a song. What about this?

If you want to see tables and numbers, of course, we have tables and number for you, but it's not fun, right?

Just a love table and numbers. So you want to see number, you can print it out for you. Oh, so these are the depth from the sensors. So even though you see the poles, they actually have a sensors as well to actually detect because you need at least

so this is this station is in the city sensor station.

Yeah, you can see that the water. Levels. Keep rising. Keep rising. Keep rising.

Speaker 1  5:06  
Okay, that the station is up in the mountain.

Mayor Kanop  5:18  
station and the city. Yeah. Mountain and the city. So we see what happened between the mountain and the city. Was this developed by

Tristan   5:51  
Was this developed by the city or by the government?

Mayor Kanop  5:55  
The Irrigation Department (Federal Government Agency).

Clinton  5:59  
the message that people receive on their phone that's from the central

Mayor Kanop  6:02  
Central Government. It's a broadcast message. So do

Clinton  6:07  
you have no control over whether that message goes out?

Mayor Kanop  6:11  
They have their criteria,

Non Arkara  6:15  
and they bought a telco to comply,

Mayor Kanop  6:16  
yeah, but people have that's the message for the whole region, for our province, for our city, our area. People listen to to the to the message from the contact, open, okay, as a guideline, okay. But when they want to make a decision, they go to the real town, CCTV. Then we provide on the mobile phone and

Speaker 2  6:41  
I

Clinton  6:44  
just thought that maybe they would tell you sorry that, hey, we're just going to send this message out, just so you know, right?

Speaker 1  6:51  
As a coordination, they just do their things, and we just follow the guidelines. It's actually

Non Arkara  6:59  
international guidelines, so I've accepted the other guidelines for public safety alert guidelines. Where was in Korea, I got messages like that, like, but by the way, guys, so this is, this is the age of the level whereby it should exceed, right? So if the level is below this, it will be all in blue or green. But once, once the number is exceeded, so you call It the color coded for You for easy access, Look

Unknown Speaker  7:59  
it

Unknown Speaker  8:12  
is

Non Arkara  8:22  
lonely. Have that.

Cleveland. The background of this powerpoint is Cleveland! 

Speaker 2  8:47  
All right, no one is pressuring you in anything. 

Mayor Kanop  8:59  
She's the crime fighter number one of the city because she knows how to use the cameras.

Non Arkara  9:21  
but The size of

the people

Mayor Kanop  9:40  
probably. If the Facebook page of the municipality is there easily for you to pull up you can show them the page where there is a broadcast video to broadcast to the citizens. 

Unknown Speaker  10:17  
Only going

Mayor Kanop  10:20  
Okay, 3 in the morning. This video.

Mayor Kanop  10:28  
Views. 240,000 is the number of views (as the video was played in the background). 

Unknown Speaker  10:43  
views.

Speaker 3  10:45  
Do you pay anything for?

Non Arkara  10:59  
Yeah, I know, right, yeah. I wish I will show you the jacket when we get back to the room. I brought mine

Mr. X (NST Municipality)  11:46  
very nice product placement.

Clinton  11:51  
Every month,

Mr. X (NST Municipality)  11:52  
okay, I thought there was a microphone

Mayor shares his number with everyone and it's on the brochure about this flooding situation as well. Every one calls to ask for his personal cellphone number.

Non Arkara  12:04  
Tristan, your mayor don't share number with people? What kind of marriage that I'm disappointed by Davao.

Mr. X (NST Municipality)  12:14  
It's easier that way. And the Mayor also tells people to use the My City app. That way, the team will get the information right away because otherwise the Mayor would have to forward the query to us which would take them more time if what they want is to solve the problem or seek help. Use the app and we get the info right away, if you call the mayor, you'd have to wait for the mayor to forward to us any way. 

Speaker 1  12:29  
Pumping station, 70 pumping station, but probably the pumping station that's blockage, floating. Garbage, and if the pumping station stopped for 10 minutes, there's a big, big flooding. So we have to make sure that that is still running. So instead of having the sensor and the control board, we just look at the real water, water coming out from that pipe, because we try using the sensor to control the pumping station. But people like it. They want to see the water really coming

Non Arkara  13:25  
out actually. I can just watch this video of water coming out a pipe on this video, like ASMR, all day long. It's so mesmerizing. Water coming out of a pipe. Oh my god, so beautiful. Yeah, just watch this all day long. No wonder she's here all day long. Just one thing, though, because the mayor just mentioned that she's the one who control all the camera. So when the motorbike got stolen, she's the one who will get it back right, because he she know where she came out to where. So basically, if you want to view an AI system, all you have to do is to learn how she actually finds really, that's definitely because, at least that you don't have to write codes anymore. You can just tell the system what kind of code you want, and if you can trace the way she actually find the problem. And

Mayor Kanop  14:00  
There're many interesting incidents for sure.

Non Arkara  14:03  
I learned this from the mayor last time I was here in this situation room with a lot of TVs from all cameras  in the city. . So this is technology, right? Can you can do a lot of things for you, but then what is the limit of technology. So say, if I, if I am a disgruntled wife, wanted to ask her, Hey, can you look into this place for me? Because my husband might be there. Is it the right thing to do for her or not?

Speaker 1  14:31  
Big No, must. We don't get involved with personal matters.

Clinton  14:37  
Yeah, because if you go to the CCTV room in City of Melbourne, it's actually public safety focused. So it's not, it's actually yes. So before you even go in the room, you have to sign something that says, I will not say anything if I see something.

Mayor Kanop  14:53  
We follow the law. Pdba as well. Yes. So it's a it's a balance between public safe. A privacy

Clinton  15:06  
can the police request that? Yeah,

Speaker 1  15:09  
anyone can request it, but you have to come here with a real document. Okay, real document. We will not release any footage, but you can see on your mobile phone in the real time, but you cannot record

Speaker 4  15:29  
it, so this is visible on a mobile phone. Yes, yeah,

Mayor Kanop  15:34  
60, yeah. So we did the one that's for public interest.

Clinton  15:47  
And can you do anything with them? Can you

Mayor Kanop  15:50  
Zoom, yes, but we cannot move them? Yeah, there're some older cameras that don't have the motor to rotate themselves. We have a series of a CCTV camera with sin. You can move anywhere that for me and for for the some people

Speaker 5  16:10  
we know, what's the brand of your camera?

Mr. X (NST Municipality)  16:22  
We have cameras from both China and Europe, and America as well. All brands: HIK vision, etc.

Non Arkara  16:31  
And Europe, America, yeah. So they have their camera from America, from China, from depending on the era of the procurement.

So, I mean, how to

integrate its IP cameras. So they connect them using API. The TOR has to be clear that the installing of these cameras would require an agnostic system -- not limited proprietary -- as we need to be able to incrementally build up our safety ecosystem as we procure additional cameras to seamlessly connect with the old ones. 

Speaker 3  17:02  
commence a actually,

Non Arkara  17:06  
These are all IP camera, yeah, why? Wire? Wire, yeah, wireless is not stable in the rain.

eliminate the other thing is that they really care about the cameras. You can see the camera because when I was in Phuket, actually one time, all the camera happens to be the like trees, trees, and then camera trees optimize the same, right? But in the city, if they see to ease right here they go cut it.

Mayor Kanop  18:04  
Well, we go cut it because people complain. Yeah, people complain to the

Non Arkara  18:38  
city. Please go out there.

Clinton  18:40  
Something that says,

Non Arkara  18:41  
if you

Clinton  18:41  
see because it's not public, their camera, somebody is sitting reading a newspaper, they can zoom in over the shoulder and almost read the newspaper, yes, but

Mayor Kanop  18:58  
we have aI Camera, of course, but we don't share it to a public Yeah, I think

Non Arkara  19:12  
Clinton want to ask, what else do you have that you don't share with us? Here, you want to ask that question.

Speaker 1  19:21  
We have gone through discussions several questions. How do you find balance in the public interest?

Clinton  19:28  
Is there any citizen paranoia about data or facial recognition or things like that?

Non Arkara  19:34  
So far, it's not just part of the world I care so much about that we care about safety more if the trade off is the privacy of data, resolution is not that good,

Mayor Kanop  19:46  
but we have high resolution AI camera. If you want to see, you get a file from the police that allow you to see.

Non Arkara  19:59  
So you. On it. You can't even track your husband's cars either. Where is it going to data privacy, very important.

Tristan   20:09  
Do they have like cases of being hacked because you guys are

Non Arkara  20:13  
connected? Not yet? Do

in the pipeline. One of the projects that the mayor has been doing with the Korean government, one of the project was to actually create a VBN system for these cameras, so that the data itself would be highly secure within the pipeline, rather than, you know, able to be hackable from outside. And that was part of the project in the pipeline. So we might be getting that support. So one of the things that he doing really well is that on things that he does, he doesn't know how to do it yet, or the things that is so new to us, you know, we get the money from other governments do it, and then they receive it. We like it or not. And for them, it's win too, because they actually enjoy the fact that they get to showcase their technology overseas. That's the KPI, and we get to actually experience this, and if it's working, then we can actually think about how to deal if it doesn't work. And we move on to the next

Mayor Kanop  21:12  
project. Yeah, we got funding from the Korean government.

Non Arkara  21:14  
Korean government through the Research Institute, language. And this is something that I can help, help all people get as well. Because, you know, it's actually come to us here, but then I did a little bit more than other people, a little bit more lobbying. I guess that's why we got the project that's easy for you guys to get as well, just just to know what kind of thing that they have, that they wanted to present, what kind of thing that you think and match with them. And then that's it. Okay.

Mayor Kanop  21:43  
Them, and then that's it, okay. And a report that I work with the UN also helped a lot the BLR report for the SDG, so put our city on an international stage. So when I communicate, I just give them the report. Speak the same criteria, same scale for the index that you want to use. That was 2022 first city in Thailand.

Non Arkara  22:16  
That's right, when he came to be a mayor, yeah. So we,

Speaker 1  22:21  
while we are. We are unknown cities outside Bangkok,

Non Arkara  22:29  
very far to do something.

Mayor Kanop  22:34  
Once we get the report, they get involved with the academy, step by step, so and then once we have private companies from Korea or the US, and then it is put on a show, like a crazy mayor. Somehow they like it. They like it.

Clinton  22:56  
But actually the city, like in UN agencies, it has a very active image among Thai cities, I guess.

Non Arkara  23:06  
I guess what happened? Some guys go around the world and tell people about that. Yeah, un

Mayor Kanop  23:17  
Environmental Conference in Bangkok. Any 82 sections, or something like that. All the commission, yeah. Commission, yeah. I mean the people. They really like it because it's simple, easy to use, yeah, and they connect with people. Because how can you have a platform with 70% of population in the last hour? We have like 30,000 users using the platform at the same time? So we got to manage the traffic. I was going to ask you,

Speaker 2  24:42  
Thank you already,

Speaker 4  24:43  
to video, that's.

Tristan   24:43  
A few years then,

Mayor Kanop  24:44  
gender, Age and when you like space,

Non Arkara  24:46  
you only see you okay? Are you? Is it privacy? Keep water park violated here. Tell me pick up one

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
crazy stuff. Okay,

Speaker 5  25:06  
think this

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
is one of the most popular application on mobile phone, and we receive a popular vote from

Tristan   25:06  
Thai Government number one. You

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
have cats and dogs in the city, right? And you are controlled,

Non Arkara  25:06  
domesticated, domesticated one

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
disease, and then vaccinate him, and then do all the things with your pets,

Speaker 6  25:06  
fostering. So you have to keep the record. Yes, for your

Non Arkara  25:06  
animal, you register your pets in the system.

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
We have 30,000 households, right? Yeah, before our city workers, has to go door to door and to do a recording. How many cats we have. How many dogs you have? As we have vaccinated yet? Okay, take time. Okay, but we change it, okay? We add the cat owners to register and provide benefits. That's the key, yes, okay. If the if I convince them to register, they say, okay,

Speaker 7  25:06  
benefits, you get free investigation.

Tristan   25:06  
We have something similar. We call it, and we also have, I prepared, 6700

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
but the problem is our city and the location, exact location, because they register by the phone, so we can check DBS of the house, so we have a map of cat and dog with different names

Non Arkara  25:06  
and the owners, who are the owners,

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
so we can control numbers of Animal and then the disease and the vaccination. Can you control the numbers of animal just got

Unknown Speaker  25:06  
some bones.

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
Very popular in those

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
popular. Thank you.

Non Arkara  25:06  
Any free vaccine is always cheaper than this epidemic. And funny enough, before we actually use

the system, if they have five

dog they're just a one. People want to be more dogs outside the community, and then. Many

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
so we can control with the provincial

Non Arkara  25:06  
veterinarian to design the system. Yeah. So the veterinarian scientist came in and she shared with us, oh, I never have good records

of domesticated because I don't have any vegetarian. Scientists came to share with us those problems, and then we start to invent people to do it by themselves, so that we get more accurate data. Because if people register by themselves, they data, because if people register on yourself as incentives,

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
We work with the

department whether with the

Non Arkara  25:06  
Department centric,

even return,

Because, based on their phone,

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
off, Okay, so we can move

it around, but the CCTV, special, CCTV that we use to catch so we can Play by anywhere.

Speaker 4  25:06  
My Thank you.

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
Together with the city, outside our city, the neighbors just had to deal with different days

Speaker 8  25:06  
when you multiply One by one, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  25:06  
okay, thank

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
It our city clerk. Oh, yeah, 123, yeah,

Non Arkara  25:06  
Rama. Up.

Mr. X (NST Municipality)  25:06  
1231, more, 123,

Unknown Speaker  25:06  
in touch.

Mayor Kanop  25:06  
Okay, so it's lunch time, and we're gonna go back to say place we came from first to move to the next spot. Okay, this is a pet one, okay.

Non Arkara  17:06  
What? How long the beginning I will show you how they register.

Mayor Kanop  24:08  
So, so this one is stray dog, a reporting of stray dogs in that area. So some dogs are not enough. Yeah. This is the owner. Let's look at the dog. Okay, this one is about recording. Yeah, see. What

Mr. X (NST Municipality)  37:00  
What you are seeing right now is the dashboard of stray dogs and domesticated dogs. Around the city, as the city has a full record of where the domesticated pets are because they get the people to report them by themselves to get their free vaccination from the municipality. The reward system enables people to go around and take pictures of their own domesticated pets so that the city would have the information and can go solve problems in terms of rabies or epidemic of something that has to do with pets right away. This also includes street dogs where the city can track and trace where they were to solve the problems. 

Non Arkara  37:07  
Exactly, almost real

Speaker 2  37:21  
time, Because what's

Mayor Kanop  37:52  
night you Say,

Speaker 2  38:33  
then, this one. Okay, okay, so this is a name and information about their parents,

Non Arkara  39:00  
vaccines,

and then sexes register. That's the owner. That's one time, yeah. And then these are male and day, and whatever she wants, she can actually report it directly from the avenue to get services. But this becomes the most complete domesticated animals inventory of any cities in the world, and it was done overnight by the people themselves.

Tristan   39:38  
We have have implementation getting people to

do this. So I think that's my thing. You can register one by one, right? But it's really thing.

Non Arkara  40:00  
Yeah, right, but you know, you you missing the last component, which is incentives.

