Intouch  0:00  
Together regarding, like, what is the pain point and how to and we found out that actually when when we look at the pain point, the problem is that we don't look at the whole picture of those pain points, so a lot of time is just come from the perspective of only one sided so the important thing, I think, from from this is one point is that we need to look at that like the whole pictures from different perspectives. Because different perspective from, for example, from the provider, regulator, operators, or women, the receivers, like the consumers or even the people, is, from their standpoint, is very different when you plan to try to solve or to see what the pain point actually is. For example, you might want to put on, like a large technologies and all those kind of things. But from some people, it might be, oh, it's just convenient. But I don't really care about if it's that high technology is like, so big or not. Sometimes it's not that point. So it's important to see the whole perspective, so that we understand what, what really are we solving, and are we solving the right problem for the right people and volunteering and so on so. And another thing is that by expanding the whole picture, the most important thing is that you have to expand more than just the area that you are, because sometimes a lot of the problem that you are trying to solve, the pain points, might already be an existing pain points that might have already be solved in some parts of the world. So it's very important to expand the horizon and but more importantly, when you have to also implement a local context, because different place have different cultures and have different peoples, have different thinking and different kind of perspective for The approach from the technologies, from the operations or how people do things. Sometimes this can be sometimes can be applied right away. Sometimes you need an extra step or an adjustment to some of the approach. Maybe the political is different, maybe the area is different, weather is different, and so on. And the second thing that we found, regarding the pain point, I think this is a pain point for a lot of people, is that we need to go out of the comfort zone. Christine has shared to me, because a lot of the time, for example, we share together that Christian go to a lot of seminars, but he hasn't seen like why it is important until he goes to a couple of seminars. See that? Okay, a lot of seminars are very repetitive and boring sometimes. But the point there that people get is that they get to meet people. They get to meet, to talk with people from different perspective. So sometimes the thing that you are going the benefits of it might not be the same as what you see, and sometimes it can expand your horizon on what kind of problem they have. Sometimes you might not even know that there will be a problem on the place you are you are, but people have experienced that before, and you can apply those knowledge or things that you found from other people's from others, maybe events and so on. That might not. You might not expect it from the first time, for example, like let go with in the ambassador events. I don't know. I don't even know that Justin is there. So by meeting, by meeting with him, it opens that, oh, this is not just about me listening to the seminar, but it's me to meet the people that, okay, they they're having a similar problem that I can share, for example. So I think it's very important to get our comfort zones. Sometimes you have to look in there that there might be some benefits to something you are trying to do, instead of just taking, just taking your thoughts on what it actually is. So that's all from our team. You want to add on something.

Tristan   4:55  
So, yeah, just just expanding some more, because it was nice that. Get to chat with the mayor outside for a bit. Basically, flooding is also a problem in our city, and I think more or less we have the same approach to be how we try to bring the people from the flooded areas or the areas that will be flooded, and we try to always tell them, you evacuate and evacuate early, bring your stuff and everything. So we have that mechanism in place, although not as probably rigid or successful as how they do it here in the city. But one thing that has always puzzled us was that despite our efforts to always inform them ahead of time, they don't cooperate. But the mayor here told us outside that they have a very good success rate in trying to tell people to evacuate. Well, I was really thinking, why is it successful in this city and not in our city? So ultimately, I was able to identify the problem that we have. It is because the evacuation sites that we have where they will be temporarily relocated, we don't have the right facilities. So the mayor was able to share his idea or how, he was able to ensure that people will cooperate. So now I will try to bring that to our city and tell our the office that's in charge of this that look it, it's not really necessarily just bringing people out from their homes and bring them to the evacuation areas. We have to also provide them with, maybe not hotel, like type of accommodation, but at least make their evacuation areas or sites to be as comfortable as possible. And honestly, we never considered that one the main focus is only to Okay. There's flooding. We have to bring them to this place, then they have to fend for themselves. Of course, we have, like, some tents, like toilets, but here it's quite clear they have a policy like 20 families or 20 people has to have one toilet. We haven't gotten to that point yet, and having this type of level of thinking, and this is something that is really insightful, and most definitely, I'll bring it to our city. So this is the value of like I told in touch Personally, I really hated, like attending these types of events. So for one thing, I was appointed as the smart city Officer of our city as early as 2018 and I only really attended this event last year, and that's the time that I met this gentleman. So yeah, so before I always, like instructed somebody from our office, Okay, you go attend, you go attend this meeting. I don't, I don't need to attend this. We have a lots, lots of problems already in the city. It waste of time. But ultimately, I went out of my comfort zone. Tried to listen to a lot of these seminars again. Admittedly, I saw everything first two sessions. It's basically the same, but sometimes there's there's people you meet in all of these events. I met in touch one of these events, non doctor, non the mayor, and you guys, and I really learned a lot. So

Non Arkara  8:18  
so you're saying this is the best workshop you ever attended?

Tristan   8:20  
Yes, yes, because you already made it a point, right? When you sent the invitation. Like this is not gonna be like the other so that alone. I mean, okay, and of course, going to this city, NSD never have thought that. Sorry me, but it's not popular for foreign tourists like me, right? I mean, it's like our city. I mean, when you think of Philippines, it's always Manila, Indonesia. What's in this city? I was thinking. I

was actually expecting that the seminar, that the seminar, or this session will be in Bangkok. But one thing that attracted me was that it's in this city, not considered. What is this city? So again, going out of my comfort zone, maybe I have to go to the city. I would I will not have any other chance. I think, if not to just purposely go here after this event, maybe bring my family here, but before this I would have never have thought to go to this city, right? So I went out of my comfort zone and seek knowledge and try to learn from other people. So yeah, so basically, I think this is one of the key things that we have to do when we try to solve pain points in our cities. Any

Non Arkara  9:47  
comment? Well, we have four, four modules. So this is the first one you want me. Did you want to go through all them first and then we come in all at once? Or would you like to go

Mayor Kanop  9:55  
one by one by one? Can you go back to your presentation?

Non Arkara  9:58  
Oh, no. This is my. This is just the outline, sir, and this is what, no, it's verbal, verbal,

Mayor Kanop  10:07  
I think, for the pain point pinpoint. I will speak briefly, because yesterday I was just throwing things around, get your attention to to identify pain points, need to go in the formal ways and informal ways. Formal ways, of course, you need a questionnaires like 10 questionnaires, 100 questionnaire get all the information what the city did before we start building a new hospital, better, very expensive for our city, so I need to get all the information whether we we should go with that project or not, because if we Spend the city money on that new hospital, we might not have money for the road. Okay, that's a policy decision. So instead of the using only numbers or data, we use data. Of course, we have questionnaires. We put a big billboard in downtown, and with QR code, you scan it, and you vote whether you like a new hospital or not, okay. And then you vote online. Vote on in the Facebook in our the live system in life, we have 70% of population. We want to go with a big project. We test the market first, so people respond, so we get all the numbers, all the numbers in the right direction, all the numbers, 80% pointing to that city should spend money to build that hospital. Okay, that's the formal way. There's so many tools that you can use the informal ways. This is politics. 101, you talk to people, okay, when I go to a ceremony, to a temple or to Masjid, we have nine masjid and 29 temples. Every time I got a chance to go on stage and to talk, I asked people, you like to have a new hospital or not, and we can't get hands, okay? And so I riled up that people are convinced that we should have a new hospital. And then I went to, usually in the morning, we drink tea, coffee or tea, and a tea shop. We have, like, hundreds of tea shops in our city. And then you go there and you listen to people with the How about the new hospital? And of course, I have a direct line that people can call me whether you like to have a new hospital or not, just see if I give you a key to the city. City keys to be a new, new resident, because he just called me. You it, okay? So formal and informal together. So identify 10 points. So it goes the same way with the smart city project, project, with the new technology, technology that we never heard of, like a virtual reality. Can you imagine that you have virtual reality in a small town like us? No, but you went to our center, right? Yes, and that's the way that we have done with this project. One more thing I want to add,

we have a classroom, okay, here in the city, and I name it, the mayor's classroom. Can go there. You can visit the major classroom and only the poor students can attend. People with money cannot. So student with no money at all, all the parents are there in jail. They live with grandpas, or they live by themselves. Health, okay, have no money to go to school, but it's my job as a senior mayor that give all the education to our kids in our city, right? And the best way to tackle this problem is that before they reach a teenage, become a teenager, okay, they still listen to you cannot drive motorcycle, okay? So I target people under, under 10 years old, okay, very poor students. In terms of money. Every morning I have a new van, okay? I buy a brand new just for this job, like what you said you want, you want to evacuate you went to stay in a cozy place, right? Like home, or better than home, for some of them, good toilet, good people to take care of you. Good food. Yeah, and what happened in the last year after the we have no flood. People still want to leave school, and the student, they are coming, so I need to send a special room for them. They want to stay more. That's how we what we did it. They don't want to go home because they stay there. Very nice, good toilet, good food.

I told them you have to leave because students are coming. This is a school, not a hotel.

See, make it like a not too serious but, but fun for them, fun for me as well. Okay, so let's come back to that. That school, the major classroom, we have a new van, brand new van, okay? And I put a stickler, the major classroom bus city and pick up students, bring them here. Good breakfast, good school, computer, good lunch, study in the afternoon, and they finished, then we put a good food in the back. Whatever that they don't have in their poor house, they will have it here. Teacher who care for him, provide them with love. Okay? And then me, I transform myself as a teacher. I'll go there in the morning before I start my work in my office. Just play around and run with them. So we have around 20 students, some of them, they are from different backgrounds, okay, very aggressive people something. Sometimes they are very from a poor background, so they fight a lot. Because okay, but when they come here, we provide them with love. I'm not joking with like GC things, if we provide them with love, no more closing, no more fighting, you have to be have to stay here. Okay? If you start fighting, I send you home. Do you like this place or you want to stay at home? Of course, they want to stay here, but I did not force them to come to school. I fool them. How did I pull? I pull with good things, with benefits. So they come here and they transform themselves, okay, after they finish our class, then they can go to high school, which is scholarship. Okay, we got a sub starship for them. All these rich people in the city, when they told them about this, I am a good salesman. I told them about this. Okay, you got money? Do you have a jar? A green jar? Put that, put your money in green jar. Greenness means it's okay to use this to help the poor. Why do you need all this money put in a green jar and then make sure that you spend all the money in this green jar? So that's when I got money for the students, for their clothes, the bags, all the color, all the stationaries, like students in city school. So the reason that I spend time telling you about this story because I think that if you haven't have a. A class like this in the world, then I'll be very happy and good for students over there as well, right? Yes, it's happening in Cushing. Or it could, for me, extend my life. I can live more than 100 years because I do good deeds, right? Yeah, healthy 100 years for me, that's all I did. That's all you need, right? You want to do good deeds. You do good deeds for money? No, no. Do good deeds to have a healthy, long living life, right? Yeah. So I want just throwing out the example, if it happened, it happened, it doesn't right. So they are very, very happy right now. So that's the strategy that I I usually use for for projects, especially new project to convince people, and don't drag him or force them to join the project, okay, but I create environment or create project, then they can see that they can touch they can benefit, like the evacuation center. See, they don't want to leave. That's the evidence that we provide good environment for people that need them. Okay, yeah, but to come out with these all the solution, like I said, I need all the formal input and informal input. And like I told you, my numbers, I have two special numbers. Say my crazy people call me once a week, so I provide them a lady and a guy with some some therapy, my version. So that's why I keep my life open, so I can listen to all people and then do with all the information, absorb all this information, then I can make a good cut decision on the policy. To make a good policy, of course, you need numbers right, data driven, but also to make a good decision, you need to absorb all the opinion, and sometimes you don't need you don't get the opinion from questionnaires or numbers. You need to be there, okay, if you be there, and then you get, shut your mouth and be there, open your ears, and then you have saw it will come that reason that I want to take you to run, Wednesday morning. Wednesday morning run, city run. I absorb all the information that, yeah, okay, that's the pain point. Very long. Useful. Yes, very useful.

Non Arkara  23:20  
Okay, well, which, which? I mean, listening to the mayor. I have some ideas. So what you, I'm gonna asking you to do next. Next is, like, after lunch, okay, is to create your own job description for this. So right now, this is just a mock up. I use AI from yesterday to to analyze all our conversations and mock it up like this. So what you're going to be doing, let me just say, let's set the deadline between maybe around 2pm you're going to send me back what you're going to be doing for, for, for your part. Okay, so if the principal and pinpoint is the one you in charge, you give me the outlines of what would be in there, right? So in touch with talking a lot about stakeholder ships, a lot about different perspectives, okay, these are all useful, but we can't put everything in one book, right? So what are the the key tenets, the key ideas you want to put in here, and what kinds of data that you want it to be here? So once we address that, then we can, we can revert back to the mayor whether or not we can, we can acquire those data to support our handbooks, because we need some evidence, either stats or photographs or even stories to shape that chapter to be excitingly Interesting. Okay, so you continue with working on it with a comment you got, and then by 2pm I want, I want, you know, a text message in our WhatsApp group, rewriting your part. You know your the outlines, the storytelling, narrative structure, the techniques you're going to be using, and at the end, what kinds of data. Kinds of data you wanted to get in order to make this chapter good. Okay, all right, okay, second group, well, this is the best workshop for Tristan so far. So and I want to make sure that he take home, you know, the superiority of tight. Nationals, just kidding. Okay, so next case study team, yep. Microphone, please. Microphone, please. Can you send it to the group? Since Can you send whatever and I'll protect it? Okay?

Farrah Eriska Putri_FTUI  25:26  
So we have just love the case study. So far, we choose three synthesis. I put it on the group, so I'm sorry for the state titles of the case studies to try. So the first one we take the flu case study, how you respond to the flu, you know, how you experience continuous rainfall, triggering flow and everything. So first we like to start with the introduction to the problem. So we probably, you

Non Arkara  26:14  
know, academic, academic,

okay. Thank you. We're

Farrah Eriska Putri_FTUI  26:24  
gonna need some data about the flooding to we try to find a problem like the city is highly exposed to what we use, especially during a grand fall, and then resident typically receive alert or mobile notification right from the central government, but however, they are still lack of preference sometimes. And then we came to the confrontation where the ratio operations could take hours to reach residents, and then every resident request to equate and late decision making any so and then we came to the resolution. Show you where you come to the smart solution, like you put the CCP the camera monitors and drainage points of and then the devices translated data directly, and it helps with the decision making and everything. And then you also, like not truly rely on digital platform, because the idea is not to be fully digital, but you have this print out so you have many ways to inform the residents. That's the first problem we choose. And then the second case study we choose, the smart city learning, ensuring equal authorities for the students, once again, sorry for the police, vital. Well, the problem is like the low income families often left behind on their education. They doesn't have financial like you told us before. So this is the problem, and the confrontation is how the parents want to educate their children. They want to tutor children, and graduate school or have better access definitely and everything, and then gap in learning opportunities, it could lead to long term educational inequalities, right? So you came with the approach, with an AI and meta first learning center, I need to recheck. If isn't only one, what is it possible? Or you have a few more willing to check the data later. And then technology supplier provide knowledge transfer to the teachers. You didn't just get the technology, you need to transfer the knowledge. And then the teacher were trained. The Center is open to all students for free, and like a student, can learn all basic and build AI models. Enjoy fun and merchants are important well, and then the metric. We're not sure about the metric. Actually, what we try here, like maybe the amount of time students spend on the left is make sure that they enjoy learning an amount of school covered by infrastructure, number of parents use the application to start to survey your kids and etc. And then the last case study is the transforming food library. Through collaboration, we focus on the elderly as an actor. I mean, like how in this marketing, usually the elder people was really included in development. We will see vulnerable groups, and then they are frequently excluded because we thought they are. They have limitation technology, right? They couldn't even use smartphone. But in concetamara, they have potential, which I will leave the population later. And then the confrontation is a. Yeah, the problem definitely. They are familiar, ever identified clothing. They also need to be informed. And then you work with interconnection, international digital literacy, like you train 2000 students, yeah, as volunteer to teach the great first or elderly neighbors how to use the app, how to use basic digital tools. And then also register to maintain and register 163 elderly residents to ensure rapid communication. And then you make it easier to understand, like you put the CCTV showing the city resident just data or number because the elderly couldn't understand. So you put the CPP to make it fun for them, and as the result, they could access alert. They watch the CCP to say, inform, and also reporting the problem to the initiative. Demonstrate how collaboration can transform the cities that into active, even the vulnerable one, to ensuring no one left behind in the smart city development. And the metric, once again, we need correction, probably like how we call this percentage of resident identified and booster of elderly actively using Smart City app and numbers of platform features accessible to all demographic responding. And our note is like, we need to data and faculty check, and we will need to solve this back up with the commandments in the first chapter later. And about the picture, we probably need more pictures.

Non Arkara  31:33  
Okay, you think you cover everything. One thing is, can you go to the first one? The first

topic? Yes, okay.

Mayor Kanop  31:50  
The heart of this operation is that we the second paragraph, the second line of the parall transmitting live data directly to the command center and and residents mobile phone. Yeah, okay, and we have an important number that we have 11 110,011 Yeah, you can see the number right now, 1122, he'll give it to you. We can track

Non Arkara  32:34  
it around. Three.

Mayor Kanop  32:48  
One, yes, yes. Residents, that's the active users. Okay, so you you use the power of cloud sourcing, put people together, they share the same information, yes, yeah, and that's all that I want to add. Thank you.

Non Arkara  33:19  
Yes. I just wanted to comment on the the delivery. I think the contents are, as the mayor said, it's covered everything that you needed to point it out. But how do we tell the story? Because would it be something like, for instance, if the app 123, could be a story of three different people that represent three different groups who are the majority of people living here, right? Maybe one of them is, you know, middle age, like 30 something, four. Middle Age, 30 something, 40 something years old, a person living in a city have an income around, I would say 30 you know, 30 1000s a year. Maybe you know, roughly middle class, you know, what kind of services is he getting? What kind of services is family getting? What kinds of things that he would he would have to call his personal cell phone number for, what kind of services he was like. You know, what calling the mayor is going to be? It take a long time, because he has hundreds of people calling him something. He got prank call from some white guy, some from Australia, right?

Mayor Kanop  34:20  
So you have to stay here long enough because you are my phone list for the election day. I'll call

you one by one. It's a phone bank. Yeah, yeah,

Non Arkara  34:42  
well, but then, you know, as you can see, when you bring down the story to this personal level, it become more engaging, right, right away, right? So anyway, I want to push you a little bit more Furthermore, to think about, you're not writing a paper here, okay, Farah, yeah, I know you're a you're a professor, but you're not writing a paper here. Yeah. You are, you are you are you're creating a five minutes teaser of how, how the cities could, could be represented in the most compellingly narrative structure, right?

Yeah, even the pleasure or the pressure, okay? Oh, yes, social pressure.

Mayor Kanop  35:21  
You social pressures, social measures, measures tools, positive tools, not negative tools.

Non Arkara  35:30  
In other words, social measure is positive reinforcement and social pressure is negative reinforcement, a psychological term.

Mayor Kanop  35:38  
For example, what happened at this moment, some people stay in their house, the second floor. They don't want to evacuate, very stubborn. But the number of stubborn people, they are shrinking, because people who evacuate stay in a cozy place. Why you want to stay in the second floor border around your house, yeah. So they go back to community, and they start talking and spreading good news. Social, social what is it? Social, positive tools, right? What's that? Social Engagement. Social engagement,

Non Arkara  36:23  
engagement too. Because, because what we learned so far is that technology alone, it's not going to cut it right. And as you show as in touch, showing to in technology, it's not that hard to actually create. All you have is, all you need is, yeah, engagement is the hard part, because without engagement, you get a tech that nobody use. Without the engagement. Sometimes engagement alone is better than technology, actually, because people knocking on doors so you know what, what to do next. Okay?

I mean, maybe not as amazing as that, because that level is pretty high. I mean, you can aspire to be, but I don't think it's going to get there. Because, I mean, I trade myself 40 something years to do that, you know, it's not that easy. So no, but you get the point, right? Because, I mean, think, think about you creating a short film. Does the cinema verite of it, the cinematic universe of it? Professor, for a while I'm for a while. I mean, who in the hell said that professor has to be boring? Because every, every professor I ever met in my life hated me because I found all of them boring. I mean, I was at Harvard, and all my professors like top, top guy, and I just told them, you're boring as fuck, man. You know, either, either change your way of teaching, or I'm dropping out this class. Well, you can, you can tell them you know me, and then either, unless they want a verbal abuse for me, they better not hate you. It's getting wrong. Thank you very

Mayor Kanop  37:59  
much that you could, you spend only one one day here, and then you cover all these important points.

Non Arkara  38:09  
No more kiss ass okay, no more kiss ass, you know, just go right to the topic. Okay, please. That would be you guys, or been direct. The for what? Oh yeah, here, here, yeah, adapter, oh yeah, oh because it's oh yeah, but oh you don't have a you're sure here, see, I

didn't ask for power presentation at all, but everybody together, except this guy, this lazy guy,

what's the population?

But you in charge of the whole thing, or province? But

officially, the

Tristan   39:17  
law says that We are like an individual.

Mayor Kanop  39:21  
Like

Non Arkara  39:40  
Congress, the.

Tristan   39:59  
PNC, smaller units of the local government, so you work together so but small. Six mountains because our city is quite big. Yes, yes, it's bigger than Metro man that all of the cities combined. So, so his strength is really touch with the people from the fire. It's basically doing

Mayor Kanop  40:40  
similar things, like we don't know, to their areas. Similar

Non Arkara  40:47  
things,

Tristan   40:48  
like we don't do their areas. There's more people actually in the city center, probably around 30% are in the fireplace in the city is already like contented the way the new mayor was just sitting.

Mayor Kanop  41:07  
That's all they ask. But

Tristan   41:14  
honestly, from my perspective, working with him, working with his author, and now his son, I mean, for it for

Mayor Kanop  41:26  
20 years, I think

Non Arkara  41:35  
I wasn't there, and Then he Yeah, so he got appointed as a mayor. There was a revolutionary but,

Mayor Kanop  41:49  
but his

Tristan   41:57  
priorities were before was like, I have to deliver. So I think he's to make the city safe, and he's on the private sector working with you. I think he

Mayor Kanop  42:12  
has more like a architect. You have your

Non Arkara  42:22  
heart. It. He reached, he reached the goal. Yes, okay,

Mayor Kanop  42:26  
and then he has the CD has,

Non Arkara  42:32  
okay, he's able to

Tristan   42:33  
achieve that. Yes, identify the.

