Dr. Supakorn (depa)  0:00  
So you know, it's great to finally get it going. And also, at the same time, you know, it's great to be here in the Hong six of our because this city has a very long history. I'm sure the man will chat about with you. And also, we are in a video of action where it's been raining continuously for the past three days. I understand every year I think the city face flood problem, but this year could be one of the worst. I'm not sure. But first of all, so I like to welcome all the participants from ASEAN countries. So thank you for making it here. I understand that some of you been traveling all day yesterday. Some even took three flights to get here. So much appreciation for your effort making it here, and also what we why we are here on season around I think you know it coincides with the theme of what everyone's been talking about this year, about inclusivity. Also, you know what we've been doing in terms of human centric development in Smart City. So this is this city has always been in our example, when we go and talk in International Studies, which examples from this city. So it's great to to actually be here firsthand from the man himself, so but I think I'd like to share a little bit you know, why this city has been successfully adopting technologies, you know, at the same time, you know, making sure that it's actually human centric in development is, I think it, one of the key success factor is down to the leader, and in this case, the man himself, I think he because he has a background in engineering, so, so he has the right expectation of what technology can do for you and how to communicate to the people in cities you know what to expect, or you know what. So the gap, the gap between actually deploying some solutions and actually solving the problems in the city is, is something that you know is both art and science, because you need, I think you need to also implementing the system behind it, but at the same time, you have to make sure you get the buy In from all the cities. And we were talking, I was talking to Tristan on Philippines yesterday about traffic problem, which I think most cities face same time. I think here also, even though it's of the largest city, it also faces traffic problem too. So you know, it's, it's something that we can also share. And we, while we're here, is not only to learn from the city. I think at the same time, everyone will, hopefully will be able to contribute back and share our ideas, share the experience as well. So I, so, you know, I last knowledge, I'd like to thank again for hosting us here, and also for the participants, and also for organizing members from both the municipality and also to Dr North, who been doing, submitting and communicating with the ASEAN secretary to get this to find our workshop for the next two days. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you

Nat (depa)  4:17  
very much for your insightful remark and for setting up today. So next, may I invite this please.

Mayor Kanop  4:34  
Welcome to our city. This seminar is a very long planning, almost a year. You pick just the right one,

obviously, and depa (Digital Economy Promotion Agency: depa) especially Dr Supakorn, Khun Pracha, Doctor non we are honored for almost for more than four years, our city is a typical city. We are city in the south. Have a very little idea about smart city, but we have a local knowledge. We know our strength and our weakness. We know what we know and we know what we don't know. So once we work together with deba, we learn along the way, both of us the city and Neva. So finally, we arrived at after four years, we received awards from from Thailand Prime Minister. Two months ago, we received an award, and have some awards from South Korea and from China, China and Thailand, yes. So my presentation today, I'll give you a brief story of our journey may take around 10 minutes, and then we can ask questions, then we can exchange idea in two way, communication, and I can learn from the city as well. So welcome to our city and try I started the presentation. Or

Speaker 1  6:39  
perhaps everybody can tell you, can tell you a little bit who they are. So maybe we start with Nice to meet

Wirawee (depa)  6:54  
everybody. Here again, I am organizing for everyone and this event. Thank you for the municipality to close us and welcome everyone again. Some of the pesticides we have met yesterday, but some you just arrived this morning, so maybe we just a little bit try it. But I hope you have enjoyed the trip and learn a lot from the case of his welcome.

Speaker 1  7:22  
Okay, hi, thank you. Okay.

Minda  7:28  
Hi, morning, everyone. First of all, thank you for hosting us here. Thank you for the invites, and especially who organized all these. I think this is something that the you need, different from the other conference or whatever. My name is Mina James. I'm from Sarawak, digital economy Corporation, one of the agencies in Sarawak, Malaysia. We are based in coaching Sarawak. We are something almost similar to Deepa in Sarawak, but we are looking after the Digital Economy Initiative, which inclusive of all the smart city initiative for Sarawak

Mayor Kanop  8:19  
from the north of the South of Kuching? I met the Mayor of South Kuching at a Mayor's Summit in Japan last month.

Farrah Eriska Putri_FTUI  8:28  
For the invite. My name is I'm from Indonesia. I'm a junior director for urban planning and also the researcher in Institute for Urban Planning and smart city. I'm very eager to learn from this workshop and to meet everyone. Thank you very much. Good morning.

Siti Suhana (Miri)  9:08  
Good. My name is Siti Suhana from Miri city council in Sarawak, so I'm also Working in a local council like this. Basically,

Clinton  9:38  
city you hi mayor. I'm Clinton from UNDP urban governance team. I'm not sure if we've met, but I've certainly met your deputy in Suwon, Korea, yes, when we did the Asia Pacific mayor's Academy, and you were part of the academy. So thank you very much for your leadership, and it's a pleasure to be joining you with another UN agency this time. I was at escap previously, but I also bring 10 years of direct experience working in local government in Australia. I worked in the city of Melbourne and worked on quite a few smart city projects there, and Dr non very kindly extended the invitation from me, as a interested observer and city practitioner myself, to come and join the proceedings. So it's my first time in Tamara, and I'm very pleased to be here because I've heard a lot of, a lot of a lot about the city. Over the last four or five years I've been based in Bangkok, so I'm excited to be here, and I'm going to Yokohama on Sunday to the Asia Smart Cities conference. And not sure if anybody from your city is going to that event next week, but also more smart city talk next week in Yokohama, Japan. Thank you very much. Thank you.

Mayor Kanop  11:06  
I learned a lot from the Academy. My fellow mayors from Philippines, Malaysia, Nepal,

also encourage my fellow mayors to join the Academy, but they are like, not sure about it.

Speaker 1  11:27  
Was it the language issue, or was it more beyond that? Was it too much time commitment for programs or too complicated or just that? It's not that kind of Caleb deal for time areas to take part in. I um,

Speaker 2  11:44  
language barrier, okay, the first one, the second one is, you have to be a student. But most major, they don't like to be a student. They like to talk, to talk and to leave. Okay. Okay. The Academy, you have to be a student homework presentation, okay? You cannot skip classes.

Speaker 1  12:11  
So it's both attitude and behavioral problems at the same time.

Clinton  12:14  
The academy is interesting. I suggested to guest camp to change the name to be a fellowship image, but actually, it's really, really a good Academy.

Speaker 1  12:34  
And the part about and language barrier, and the part of Yeah, everything, just positive pros and cons. Mm, character. He

Speaker 2  12:47  
scheduled for two nights at 530 in the morning, I picked him up at a hotel to run and see because I told you to learn and to absorb and to understand the city you have to run between. So that's what we did. And then

Speaker 1  13:18  
maybe we can introduce your team as well. So good morning everyone. This is the director

NST staff  13:31  
of budgeting division, Mrs. Arne ganjana Museum. Ornigan,

Peem (NST Municipality)  13:46  
good morning everyone. And my name is Peem Na Ptattalung. I am an Officer for the smart city division of Nakhon Si Thammarat. Thank you.

Nat (depa)  13:57  
Good morning everyone, and going to Mayor as well. So actually, we have met each other already about the dairy game, right? Because, like, I have the one who chat with you all the time. So my name is Promotion Department of diva, and I am the coordinator of this vocabulary could view. So this is my second time here in the hot seat amarad, and we always like impressed by the cozy and warm hospitality. So thanks again to the mayor and again to all the staff. Thank you very much. Thank you.

NST staff  14:30  
Hi everyone. Glad to see you today. You

Ramon  14:35  
i Good morning everyone. Good morning. Mayor. So I'm Ramon Miranda from the city of madila. I'm EAS specialist and also a data analyst. I'm, I'm the chief operations as I'm the chief deed, the chief of special sections, chief of the special operation centers of Manila, the one in church in Data Management innovations and digitalizations of Manila.

Tristan   15:17  
My name is Tristan Dwight Domingo. I come from Davao City, Philippines. It's in the southern part of the Philippines, and I work for the city government there, so I've been working with the city government for more than 15 years. So currently I'm designated as the assistant city administrator. So we're always proud to say that our city was able to produce a president. So from that, we have this long term, long term you mayor for like 20 years and ultimately became the president, although he's facing some challenges now, but we're quite proud of the progress that our city had when he was our leader from a basically war torn city to becoming one of the bigger and more developed cities in our country. So Mayor, thank you for hosting us, and maybe we can also extend a similar invitation in the future. And I'm really looking forward to learn a lot from you directly. And if I may say, this is quite very good learning experience, really learning directly to a leader of a city. It's quite different going or attending these events where you learn from I mean

Non Arkara  16:35  
boring, boring

Tristan   16:36  
experts, people, person who's really into the action, making the decisions, how the decisions came about. So, yeah, it's really interesting. That's why I really made it a point to go here. And despite the rain, I think I saw some parts of the city last night, and it's also really good to learn from a city like this, because it's not that far in terms of like its status or development, compare comparing or comparing it to our city. So again, thank you. And I'm also looking forward to learn from the other delegates or invitees to this event. Thank you. Thank you.

Speaker 2  17:22  
Thank you. I study a story of the precedents. It's been 20 years as a city mayor. Two months ago, I attended media conference, the National Mayor conference in Toyota City, Japan make nails from Philippines. And then I, of course, I asked him about the residence, because I studied his, his ways of thinking. He gave me how he attacked problems in the city, how he never groundbreak in the city dropped dramatically by his method and his way of action. So hopefully we can have a talk, and then I can You can exchange the idea. Much.

Intouch  18:31  
Okay, hello, my name is actually, I just know about this event yesterday, and thank you so much for Deepa for inviting me. So I'm the CEO and co founder of via bus. So we are a transit tech company, so we provide like system for the fixed route transportation industry in end to end. I think I have, I will talk a little bit about this in another session, but I'm really glad, and I'm really surprised for the diversities here and how like practition everyone are, and I will have very glad if I can learn more and maybe share something that might be able to benefit all the cities around

Non Arkara  19:20  
or maybe Dr Supakorn, can add a little bit about the synergy between the work of government and the work of startups that deep I supporting because, I mean, the reason that Ian touches here is not because he wanted to come here. He wanted to come here, of course, but it's also because he believed that, that what he does is, is it's a it's a project. So it's solution that that is, that is based on on the digital economy, which means that you don't have to build a lot of physical infrastructure, but you get the same benefits for the digital economies, either on the cloud or or in where you keep the file. But anyway, maybe notice what I can mention a little bit about, about why is it that Deepa is is supporting startups, and why support startup is so important to our operations as well. Otherwise it wouldn't make sense, because, I mean,

Dr. Supakorn (depa)  20:07  
well, I think the work that it touch a bit of us is doing is a common challenge for many, many cities. Also, I think I shared Tristan and also, no so because in smaller cities, you know bus operators or transit providers, they usually it's been established for a long time, and they have local influence and stuff. So mas in order to introduce changes, I think, well, technology is, you know, you know what what you see is what you get, right? So basically, you want to bring everything on the table, and so bring, make it transparent. So that's, I think that's a key value that he's adding to this transportation sector. But for us, for deeper, I think we, of course, as a digital economy promoter, we, always look for new solutions for, you know, different sectors, not only smart city, but also in manufacturing, In healthcare, in education, in agriculture, for example. And what distinguishes deeper from other agencies that we can actually invest into private entities. So we can, you know, take stake in private companies at the same time, we also want to promote SMEs, you know, not only on the supply side, but on the demand side as well. So we know that technologies can bring more efficiency, can lower the cost you or bringing bringing growth to business. But in order to do that, I think we need someone like or other startups where they actually tackle the local problems or challenges and they understand the local context. I think that's why you know we are also working in supporting or promoting startups. But so far we you know, as all of you probably know, that you know, when we invest in 100 startups, maybe only less than five. So that's also something that we have to explain to the funding agency, Deepa government agency, we also get funding from the government, so we have to justify what we do in terms of making investments. And also, I think at the same time, we want to be quick in supporting this startup ecosystem, but at the same time you also want to create a longer term relationship, because it's something that you learn from them, you know, whether they are really serious about what they're doing, you know, in the long term, not just something you know for quick wins.

Non Arkara  23:57  
So after we've invested 2 billion Taiwan via bus, right? What happened? Where's the money? Did you just use it to five years class elsewhere? Where's the money? Right? So yeah, that's one of the key things that distinguishes from a lot of agencies, whereby we really believe in startup, we think they are a key player in doing things that we want. Because if you always have to talk to big companies for anything that you want, of course they're going to charge you a lot, and they might even give you some solutions that are bigger than what you actually need. So you ended up paying 85% for things that you don't never, ever get to use. Whereas, if you work with startups who understand local pain points, local needs, local requirements, like like him, or many other companies that he, my colleague will be talking more about we can actually get the project off the ground faster. Not only that, it's also more bang for the buck in terms of the efficiencies and the ability for the project to yield the benefits that we set as KPI. But last but not least, I just want to also ask my colleague Kundra to introduce himself. So so just a background. Maybe go back about eight years ago, before anyone actually know what smart city really meant. smart city really meant. He was at all with a few people who actually started off trying to find out what the fuck smart city really meant. And then actually he found out, and he did some of the projects were quite impressively in Phuket, where he his office is located, and together with Dr superconduct, who, at the time, was not even at Deepa, yet, he was working for another agencies in terms of science, technologies, and they were joining forces even before Deepa came into existence. And because of that collaboration that got dated back to, you know, 2016 right? 2015 you know, all the way, yeah, and all the way to that time, all the way to what we have today, that eventually we got to be in the same team, you know, like, like Liverpool, you know, all these players from different teams, even, yeah, yeah, they're losing painstakingly. Losing point is, we didn't know that we're going to be working together. But then, you know, after eight years, three of us from the three different agencies, we got together by accident, and now we are trying to work on projects that are meaningful. But it all started with these two guys. So I'll give I'll ask a conversa to tell us more, a little bit about, you know, the work that he has done. Why is it that smart city in Thailand, most of them are in the southern part of Thailand. Is it because of you, you're so good at doing this, or is it because southern cities are more straightforward and how they wanted to achieve? Tell us a little bit more. I'm talking to me a lot.

Pracha (depa)  26:27  
Okay, I'm Pacha, the Vice President of your firm for the Southern District. My responsibility is to driving the digital economy in southern their project is not only smart city, but also the other in terms of applying the digital economy, but the smart city is the huge one that going to drive we work very closely with the governor mayor in the city in southern Thailand. But Phuket and Chiang Mai actually the first city of Thailand, the first two cities of Thailand that the government tried to promote the smart city. That's maybe more than 10 years ago. At that first time, we don't know much what the smart city is, so we learned a lot from many of their big firm, company, and also the cooperation between each country. The first part is going to be the upright of their technology, because we talk a lot with the tech company, so they push all the techs that they have in their hand to US release working experience. So we learned that the soma city might not start with the text. It might start with the pain point, and also the human centric that Dr supercond mentioned. And after that, we will, like start thinking about the human centric, first the pain point, the challenging of the city, and then we will seeking for the technology to working with. Right now in the south and of Taiwan, there are many of the city that start to implement their smart city projects, but it's one of our best to do the smart city advice variable, I think you can like learn a lot from the mayor so and after that, maybe I'm at a return of the other city, South

Non Arkara  28:33  
China. So that's the floor, back to Dr Cano.

Mayor Kanop  28:40  
Just start my presentation and then leave room for discussion.

Our smart city is a people centric smart city. So we started the problems of the people, and then we discussed, and then we put people together and work together from a small scale, and then created in the last scale success. Okay, next please. These outlier representation, give you a city data and then go to sparsity platform and go to the hospital on wheels. This is healthcare application and go to Metaverse classroom. That's the education application, and go to the AI innovation center that we just opened last month, and then go to the next project and keys to success. Next please is the basic data of our city. We are a historic and cultural city. Our we have a 29 temples, nine masjids, and then we can trade trace back to around 1200 years ago for this temple, it's a great temple, the finalist of the world heritage. We have population of 150,000 and with the tourists around 4 million a year, the center of education, there were 30,000 students in the city, in the Thailand Smart City winners for three years. And also we get, we receive the best Partnership Award, together with diva from Korea, 2023 was must Expo. Musty Expo. Okay? This the platform that we are using right now, especially during this time, a big mass of water coming from the mountain to the city that people are working together using this platform. Right now, we have about 30,000 people on the platform currently working together to fight this big mass of water that coming to the city. The platform empowers citizens to report complaints directly to the city. So at the beginning, we encourage people to complain so we can absorb their opinions, their problems and everything to the city, and so far, we provide 20 complaint solutions with right now, we have 112,000 users. That's more than 70% 70% of the population belong to this platform. Okay, that's very unusual for a simple platform that can bring people together. And the last three years, we resolve around 38,000 complaints within 48 hours framework. This is a very important for the success of the platform that the city guaranteed, and the mayor guaranteed, with his political careers, that if you report it to us, the city will go out and fix it in 48 hours. Is not done in 48 hours, then the mayor must go out and fix it, because that's a promise, a strong commitment, then you give it to the people, and you have to deliver, okay, if you don't have a strong commitment, this platform will be just a platform, a backhoe that You report problems to the platform and then disappear, and then people will not pay attention to this platform. Also in the platform, we provide real time flood warning with water level cameras that I will show you in details the CD save around point 5 million US dollar annually by using this platform no papers for people anymore, and to ensure accessibility for all, we train 2000 high school students as a volunteer, because the next generation this platform is like a piece of cake for them, so they can help their grandpa and grandma that stay at home to use this platform as well. Next please. Okay, this is what happened before we start the platform that you can see the paper with all these signatures. So start with the complaint. There's a resident signature, and then finally, followed by four signatures before the last one is a major signature, authorized city workers to go out and fix the problem, a pothole, street light and whatever that the job of our city. It takes around 15 days to fix a pothole. After we switch to a platform solution, we drop it to only two days. That's not easy, but that's a strong commitment, and then the mayor or the leader must lead. You must say that we have to finish in 48 hours. You do it, or you die. That's a methodology that you have to do it. If not, it will be just a platform, not a special platform for the people. Next, please. Okay, that's how we train 2000 students to help the older people in the community. Because high school, high school students, they go to school, they go everywhere except stay home. Okay, but grandma and grandma, they stay home. So we asked them that to watch out for the city. So in the morning, instead of reading newspaper or what TV, they take a mobile phone and scan the city, scan that street, scan the community, look out for the problem, so they can report it to the city. The city will come, city worker will come to the community to fix the problem. And they are very happy with that. They are like a Superman of the community. So instead of using the high school student to work, we put the grandpa and grandma to work, and they are very happy with that. And you can discuss more if you have a question. Okay, next please. Okay, this is what, what we are working right now. Right now, residents in our city can see real time situation by the CCTV camera. We have around 700 cameras in the city, and we upload it to the public, 160 cameras, and you can see around the city and see water up in the mountain. What's the water level over there? And it takes around 10 hours for water from the mountain to come to travel to the city. So we have 10 hours as a golden period for warning. That's a golden period. If people know what's the order level up there. You don't need a big announcement. Okay, I usually have a speaker phone in the community, and then we have to broadcast. Sometimes people know about it. Sometimes they don't have a truck running around in the community saying, what is coming, what is coming. But no need for these methods, because they see with their own eyes. Okay, we have sensor, of course, but sensor, you get the numbers. Grandpa and Grandma don't like number. They don't like to see what happened. This is what happened up in the mountain. Okay, that's along the slope. I have a color green, yellow and red. If the water level is green, that's fine. If yellow, then you prepare integrate. Then it's time for integration. So we use a we don't use a switch or announcement from the city, but we have a plan, and we work together with people. Their own eyes. Is a switch for them. They know what to do. If they see a water level is at the yellow then they know exactly what to do. Okay? If they live next to the river in the lowland, or what they are in hospital or school or volunteers, they have, they all have a duty to fight disaster together. Okay, we just share the real time information. Next please. This is a hospital of wheels. We have a city hospital with our 60,000 patients, and our patients cannot come to the hospital because they are all people, people with disability. So we put a doctor and nurses and pharmacists in a smart bus, and we travel to the community.

Okay for the doctor appointment, they don't have to come to the city. We bring all the health care to their doorstep. So far, we have around 4000 patients using this service, and they are very, very happy with that. This smart bus will connect to the to the city with the high speed internet to the doctor that working in the smart bus, we work with the computer, and all these health care information will exchange freely between the smart bus and the City Hospital. Next please. That's the activities of the hospital or bills. Next please. Next one is a Metaverse classroom. We use the AR and VR in real classroom. We have been doing this for four years, so I can say that we know what we are doing or what I'm talking about. We start with a small class, a small demonstration, bring AR and VR to the to the class, and then put a grandpa, grandma's parents in a van, bring it to the classroom to see what's going on in the class. What's the real VR set and master AR technology so they can learn together with their kids, and they love what what we are providing for their students and their voters. They have right to tell me, as a city mayor, to put more money in the project, so I don't need to ask people to put more money in the high tech technology for education. People ask me to do that. You don't push high technology to the people. But SB, once they see what's the benefits for the students, and so far, we are using this technology for 11,000 students, and we train 300 teachers to develop 1500 digital lessons. So we cover all the city school community leaders, community centers, and also the temple schools as well, still with students with no money because they go to the temples. Next please. Okay, that's a VR, and the right one is AR. Okay, that's the temple school. That peacock is AR technology, and the right one is kind of AR. And kindergartens. They are very good patch. You try, then you will believe it. Next one. And that's then we expand it to the AI Metaverse Innovation Center. We have 45 high speed computers. Then you have a chance to visit not far from here at the old school. That's what they are. Using a VR set to experience solar system or internal organs, your kidneys, your heart, what happened inside they learn from this VR set what's next? That's a new hospital under construction. We finished in two years. The backbone of this hospital will be AI, and then we are, hopefully we can have a long distance surgery with a hospital in Bangkok, next please, and right now, we are working with the University in Bangkok to get AICD guide. That's his name is Take. Take is a shadow puppet, very popular one. He's pretty ugly, you can see, okay, dark skin, very local, with the curly hair. Okay? Once you arrive at the City Airport and you scan a QR code, he will jump into your mobile phone, and you can add anything to AI tech and you train take you around the city. What's the good restaurant? What's the point of visit? History of our great temple, he will know everything. So we train them on a small small model is not the last language model. Next one, please. Okay, that's the Super tech as a Superman of our city can do we can chat and show you attraction. Provide 3d models of our temple, and you can use a thing for the VR set. Also navigation as well. You want to from the city hall to the great temple, but how you navigate in the city 10 will help you, as you have a friend, a virtual friend, sitting next to you. And after we after we to complete the trip, then you can dump him, unload him out of your mobile phone, or you can keep him in your mobile phone. It's up to you. Okay. Next is okay. This one, we call it. Next is our International School. We have 10 schools. Next is a school with students with good background, around 700 students belong to the school. What we are doing with mixed AI is that they want to put parents together to be the student tutor. Because student with money on Saturday and Sunday, they have to go around the city take lessons in math, English, science with a real teacher, person, okay, it's a lot of money, and some some parents don't have that kind of so the parents come to to me and to the school director, how can the parents with no background in science or math tutor the kids. That's the that's the point. So we create unique AI, and then we train parents. Okay, we train parents, put parents together, train them how to use AI, and then create homework, okay for their kids at home, so the kids don't have to go to a tutor or to Academy and pay more money just stay home, have more time with their Parents. Okay? The kids, they need love and time so they can stay away from their mobile phone, their iPad, and spend more time with their parents by using this AI. So we train. So far, we have around 230 parents joining this program for the last semester. Parents, they are very happy. Next, please keep the success collaborative ecosystem with people at the front of the city, initiatives, implementation of easy to use and robust technologies. Okay, the platform that we, that we use, is very, super easy and very stable. If you have a live program somewhere in your momma, please join me and then join this platform, and then you can see what, what's going on in our city, what's the water level up in the mountain or next to your community? What's the water level what's the traffic in front of the kids school? You know everything by join this platform and the last one, must have a strong commitment of the public private partnerships with guidance from deeper of Thailand. And like I said at the beginning, we are very strong. Our strength is a local people and our commitment to our people, but our weakness is that we don't know about Smart City. We don't have knowledge. We don't have connections with smart city people in Thailand or international stage. So we, when we work together, we we can, I can expand my views, expand my experience, and then we can work together. Deba can learn from us, and I the city can learn from them. And right now, we have a honor to welcome our friend from international stage. That's a rare opportunity for us. Thank you for coming to the city. I think it's time for discussion that you may have questions.

Speaker 1  47:43  
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so I'm pretty sure everybody have lots of burning questions, and this is a time to ask, Mr. Mayor, are you? Do you have to go anywhere soon because of the rains? I just want to make sure. Oh, okay, this is,

Non Arkara  48:11  
what do you want to do? Well,

similar, right? Well, you know, just so you know, if you, if you have to step out, you know, to solve problem on behalf of the citizen. Please feel free to I just wanted to give you a bit of background as well, because, I mean, it's really nice that the mayor has mentioned that Deepa has played a part in the success of the city. But in fact, I think we like to be actually do more than, than, than helping the country. It's actually take place for the success, right? Because we won so many awards with the city, but actually the city did 99 of the work. We only did one 1% but we got the award as well with the city. So it's been kind of nice to be able to take credits like that. But really, I mean, they're talking aside the Dr subagon did mention a lot about leadership, which is very important. And in addition to leadership, used to have the to build an ecosystem where you have startups who would like to work on a problems, and you have the city administrator who understand that there are different ways to procure projects. It doesn't always have to be the same old physical procurement. It takes long time, and at the end, the cost opportunity might be even higher than the cost of the project itself. So in the sense you know the cutting edgeness, in terms of attitude changing, in terms of behavioral shifting and in terms of new ways of transforming governance. I think that's one of the keys that I've been very privileged to have been witnessing how you actually transform the city over the past few years. So lucky. Thank you for that, but this is your floor, so just wanted to give one thing that you guys need to keep in mind that at the end of of this workshop, which is about 26 hours from now on, we're going to need an outline for the first and only one citizen centric Smart City handbook in the world, right? It would be the first one. It'd best one. It will be the one that everybody read. And you guys only have 26 hours from now on to create an outline for us to be able to put work on this together. So if you have questions, you know, please don't keep it to yourself, because everything that you ask will become foundations of what we want to work on it

Mayor Kanop  50:15  
together. I can go on and on for hours, but I should stop. We can discuss. And I want to add one more point, the most challenging for me is turning the over. City to become a smart city model is that to convince people? Okay, convince people. How to convince people? You don't convince my word because I shut my mouth, open my ears and just do it. Can you convince people by your action? So the most challenging thing for, I think, for cities, I think they are in the same, same boat. It's a behavioral change to do garbage separation, to change the behavior, to turn a typical city to be a smart city, that's a behavior change, okay, and people, especially our people, we are in The South, a very strong opinion, very independent. We are like cat. We are like a cat. You drag a cat forward to go backward, okay? You push a cat forward. You try to to go backward, right? Resist change, if you want, if you push or force, but if you, if you are stupid cat, if a mayor is a stupid cat, all the clever cats want to follow.

That's my strategy. You don't want to drag that. We have 150,000

cats in our city. Have a very strong opinion, like in the southern Philippines, very different from the north, as I learned.

Speaker 1  52:19  
Yeah, they also kill each other as well, right? Yeah. So the cats are like,

Mayor Kanop  52:23  
Yeah, well, I would get the way that I think, the way that I implement the project.

Speaker 1  52:34  
Thank you. Well, maybe I'll ask the first question is, what is the most difficult behavioral change that you have had experienced over the past five years of your mayorship? Which of the things that has been hardest in terms of behavioral change that you able able to succeed?

Mayor Kanop  52:55  
Well, there are so many things, so many things, but I think have a discussion when I started to name the project, Frontier technology, okay, very hard to understand. I implemented with the local vendors, with the grant writers, people on the street vendors, if they understand, if they see benefits, they are large part, large population our city that my Internet Project is good and you communicate, you digest high technology so people can eat, eatable Smart City. Like in a Metaverse classroom. Can you imagine this frontier technology outside Bangkok? But I while, when I talk to the parents, I don't say this is a new technology. I said that people in Bangkok in Japan, in Colombo in South Korea, they'll use this technology for their kids. Do you want this technology or not? They say, why not? Okay, and then I put them in a van and bring them to the classroom. I don't want to, I cannot, and I don't want to explain new technology for them, but they have to feel, to touch, to see benefits by themselves. So they can make the decision to change the behavior. I cannot change behavior of people, no way, but I can show them, and then I do it like the platform. Once we start, I introduce the platform, how to use it, and then I just shut my mouth. No more, no advertising, no. Say this is a good one. Please use it to please them. No, I just shut my mouth and do my things. If they want to fix the pothole, I go out and fix it, okay, in a silent way, because you are a drum, people has to beat it. You cannot beat a drum by yourself. So your action will be a Trump that people beat, and once they beat it, then they believe it. If I say, please go forward. They say, No, that's not a good thing. We want to go backward. They say, Okay, let's go backward. No, we want to go forward.

So the leader must just walk with people in front. I am the last one in the train,

and I follow the leads. Delete, what what they are going is the direction that they they choose follow their opinion. I just provide options like the platform you want to report problem to the city using paper or using a mobile phone. Which one is better? Okay, they think mobile phone is better. Let's do it. Try it together. It faster, faster than calling the major one case I would like to share with you, a grandpa, a very good senior citizen. He called me to report about a broken pipe, boiler pipe in the house. It's our job to fix it. So they called me during the meeting. I cannot pick up a phone. So he report the problem to the platform, okay, and got it fixed in one hour. Okay. After I finished the meeting at noon, I call him back see what's going on grandma. And he said he wants to report a broken pipe, but it's already been fixed. So this platform is better than calling the mail. Okay, once the grandpa is happy, he will go around in the community, around the city, and then do advertising for me. I don't have to do that. Okay? That's my strategy. Do that. Okay, I'll stop now and then stand for discussion. Thank you.

Speaker 1  57:56  
All right, right. Questions. I'm sure everybody have questions. Yeah, I think it's really

Farrah Eriska Putri_FTUI  58:09  
amazing what you did. Like the main horrible and most important is the leadership. I think, like how you lead the people, right? But I Well, we have, you said, you have a lot of cats, a lot of people that they have a strong opinion that and probably maybe, like, really small person, they still don't want to follow, right? They're probably, I don't know. So if you see these people who still research doesn't want to follow you, what do you think is their their problem with that? Is it because, like, I'm too old for this, just like the kids doing that? Or, Yes, their egos maybe. Or what do you think for them who still doesn't want to follow?

Mayor Kanop  58:59  
The best way to tackle this problem is using social measures, if we have like, 20 people in this room, and you are the only one that are using a smartphone.

Speaker 1  59:20  
Oh, you mean "social pressure," not "measure." It sounds like pressure,

Mayor Kanop  59:28  
I mean "social measure" in a good way, in a fun way, in a fun way. So make it fun, yeah,

Farrah Eriska Putri_FTUI  59:39  
but if you saw them like, if I don't want to follow you, what do you think is the problem with the people who don't want to follow you? They just don't want to do it, or they feel like they are couldn't use the technology or something.

Mayor Kanop  59:59  
Okay? You see that we have 150,000 people, for sure that 100% of them, we use a platform for some for some reason that they don't want you to use thing. If we can reach the 70% I think that's a good target, and we can move on to another project. Maybe they will join me, another project for hospitals for smart classroom. They don't like platform, that's fine. Do you like, do you like smart bucks for hospital? Of you, some of them like it? Okay, let's join me on these to make

Non Arkara  1:00:49  
it fun. Gamify it basically. Yeah, gamify the system. Well, basically, the reason why people don't use the system, there are many things, right? Like they don't have the phone, or they can't pay for the Internet, right? There's so many other things that can, can also play a role in in people not using it, but if you prefer to use a paper still, the paper is still available, right? The government doesn't say, Well, you only use this only, and everyone else is gone. No, actually, there's many options. But he purposefully not just people towards the option that he find to be the best for the back end to go and fix problems on behalf. Because when you actually fill in the form, I mean, it takes forever to actually process the form right. The handwriting is hard to read. Location is unclear, and at the end they go fixed problem at the wrong place.

Mayor Kanop  1:01:37  
Like I said at the beginning, you make Grandma,

grandma being a Superman in a community.

So he's like there to protect the community by using his smartphone, because he has all the time in the world. He's retired. Stay home watching TV. Why not do something that's good? We are very proud of that. So I have tons of tons of reports from senior citizen, and at the beginning of the project, I'll go out by myself, collect garbage and then climb up ladder to cut trees, make it fun for them. Don't make we don't take things too serious. So they either want to join the wagon, they try to wagon. If they don't want to, okay, get into a van or a bus. We work together. Have fun together. We have a senior citizen center over there, around hundreds and senior citizens. In the morning, we have a bus travel around the city and pick them up, go to that and some of them like to sing around gay. Some of them like to pray. Some of them like to exercise, and some of them like to gamble. So I have my money. I put in a poise, okay, put in a big bowl and give it to senior citizens so they can gamble. They can fight each other, so you make it fun. Okay? It's like we have people with mental disability walking around the street. Okay, people don't know how to talk to them. That's me. I can talk to people, yeah, yeah. I can talk to people with mental disabilities. Talk to him, yeah, okay. That's Joe. They call me. He called me Joe because I talked to him like a normal person and food for them. Okay, what he smell? But that's okay. I just sit together. Make it fun. Okay, so if you tackle it, not too serious, and any problem you have to have solved because you are major right? Okay, we have people with different mega rich people, poor people, old people, teenager kids, people with disability, people with the mental fitness, all kind of people, but to humanity. But my, my way of thinking is not thinking too serious. Take it down in a fun way. Thank you.

Ramon  1:04:42  
So I have a question up with all the application AI, applications that you have, how do you sustain it? And also it is a is it a locally produced application? Or government develop applications

Mayor Kanop  1:04:57  
locally produce our teachers with a major in computer science. So he developed it. We provide them with good servers and good money. Yes, good incentive. But I, I told him, please keep it as a small model. We don't want crazy stuff because you can have to penetrate to our school system. So all the AI in our school that he knows that about knowledge, because we train put the AI, put the knowledge to the AI. It's small model. You add something crazy. You say that he just simply say that, I don't know, he will not produce some weird answers for you. Thank you. Thank

Speaker 3  1:05:54  
you. I see that the platform of of the Council of municipal complaint for 15 days to 48 hours. So how you come overcome the complaint that state is required of more than 48 hours? Say, for example, the vote was like need to be repaid because of the budget requirement, etc, and how you overcome that, and also your mind to share your experience and your leadership when you overcome the 15 days compared to 48 hours, maybe that will help. For the municipality to improve.

Mayor Kanop  1:06:49  
Thank you. We can solve it in 20 hours. Around 88% of the problem. For 12% we cannot.

They want to build a new road. We cannot do it for two days, but we can close the problem, close the complaint by the major I go out, okay, and then we put them in the city budget, audience, yearly budget in the next year or

Speaker 4  1:07:28  
next year, but the key Is that all the complaints will be the Concrete response. The last four

Speaker 1  1:07:45  
years because of up in the last four years because of the system. I'll send. Oh, there's a massive cell broadcast going on here. All of our phones are beeping now. 

Tristan   1:08:12  
Screenshot to the group from the center of the emergency. The message is about flood warning? Yeah, cell broadcast

Mayor Kanop  1:08:35  
I can condense a control room into a mobile phone, because last night I start working the water pump station three o'clock in the morning. But I put all everything command centers in my mobile phone. I will show you at a real command center. Is that safe? You can condense it to only one, and right now, at this moment, we have 30,000 active users, the real time situation, our water level. Once they know the water level, the real information, then they can make their decision. Okay, one of the hardest things about fighting flooding disaster is that to convince all people to leave their houses. They don't want to leave the houses. They want to stay. Rising, rising. Go to the second floor, water rising again, again. Okay, call the mayor or to a roof, so I have to rescue them on the roof, but at the beginning, he may go with no water, rescue them at the in the house on a dry Street, five minutes, but to Take rescue them from the roof like one hour. So how to to rescue them in five minutes? So we thought so. So let them see with their own eyes, Grandma, grandma, senior citizen, so they can make their decision whether you want to go out or not. So right now we have city workers that go out. We have 163 okay, senior citizens on our list. So we interview them at the beginning. If the world level is rising, where do you want to go? Okay, so we know from point A to point B in advance, once he or she makes a decision, okay, I want to go. Okay, the city worker will go to the house and bring you from point A to point B right away. That save our time and effort. Yeah, that's a that's our plan. But the switch to execute a plan is up to the level green, yellow or red, and put all the parties with different activities, different responsibilities, together, but all parties must be organized in the horizontal fashion, not vertical. Can we share the same information? Okay? I don't have to order the school, hospital or volunteers to do this or do that. I just sit here with you. They know what to do following the plan, and what's critical to plan is the water level that they see with their own eyes. They can make their own decision. Thank you.

Minda  1:12:01  
First of all, the a bit technical on the citizen app. What are these 20 complaints?

Mayor Kanop  1:12:12  
Okay, you can see light potholes, the physical problems and also the okay spring light potholes, garbage, water pipe, trash infrastructure problem, medical equipment you need a can for workers, Contact the platform you want to borrow. You want to get it. We try to put all the service in there. You want to you pay money to the city.

Minda  1:12:56  
Another one is that you're talking about the public private partnership.

What kind of how have this been done? Okay, we work together with a startup

that's him and he's this employee, very small, together. Small budget, you don't need big budget.

Speaker 2  1:13:35  
The most challenging things the process, maybe work together as a happy budget is not a problem. So you find a right startup to really work with you, because there are many big companies in Thailand. They have a very fancy application to do this and do that, and then they want to give it to you. You pay big money, and they left, okay, that's not good. That's the most okay. So I talked to the startup at the beginning, yeah, in a business way, it's a win, win situation, okay, you're a startup. You have no reference at all, but you have experience, you have a technical knowledge, and you were willing to work in a way that we are looking we started people, we talked with people. We do a city run, absorb, understanding people, and then we decide a system, very easy to do once we have the app, small budget, because I told them you want to sell your software or your app to one city, or you want to sell it to 2000 cities. If you work with me, you get an award from my government. Big award, then you can sell you 2000 cities easily. That what actually really happened, because you can make a lot of marketing. And then we flew to our city. Okay? Right now we have cities around Thailand coming to our city, and have to talk again and again. I'm willing to because I want to convince my fellow mayors to use this way of doing things. Okay, save your save the city money and less work for city workers, that's the second most challenging is to convince the city workers to work with you. They want they don't want to change, right they don't want to change. They're happy when they're doing right now. But you have to find ankles but to work around to convince them, we have around 2000 city workers, 2000 miles. I never fire one never. They reside themselves, because I set apart the system, the process, and some of them, they don't they see that they don't like this process. They just reside from the city.

Non Arkara  1:16:34  
Wait. Was it social pressure again? Or is it

Mayor Kanop  1:16:39  
make it fun? For example, for example, a street light. See the street light is dark for a week, and then people send a complaint to our platform. The electrician still don't want to go effectively. So we cannot complete the 40 eight hours cannot deliver in 40 hours commitment. What should I do? Should I find the electrician? No, I cannot do that. What I did? I get in a truck and a ladder and stick light. What's the why? Why so difficult to do? I just go there and change it, okay? And then we got light in the community and calm down. And then after that, people will say, Oh, what's going on while the mayor is climbing the ladder as like a crazy people, he's sitting with a crazy people right now, you turn me crazy. Okay, okay, so, but you make it in a fun way, but I did not condemn, I did not scold them, but I would say something like, Oh, he's like, he got it kissed his kid. He has to take his kid to school and then to Bangkok. Don't have time to come back. So that's my job to do, because it's me who say 48 hours

coming out of my mouth. Yeah, I'm a slave of my whole world

for mayor is a very risky, risky business. We have the OSD from Philippines USD group came here two months ago. I explained to him, to them the way I did, they think that I'm a little off,

a little crazy at their like it.

They say, Okay, well, what's the, what's the, if you can put it in one sentence, so they can bring back to the fellow mayors in Philippines, what's that? What's that? Convince fellow mayors. So I told the group of the OSD is a science technology you hit the politician at their spot. So I told them, fellow mayors in Philippines, you do this, you win the next election. That's it. Because city mayors, they are from election, right? The only thing, the final thing, for politician, is next election. So I prove it. This is my second term, so I'm a living evidence. But it's a risky business, because I talked to Mayor Nelson from Naga, yeah, we had a meeting. So he said, Oh, he tried to put in a nice way, but he said, like, Oh, you are very strong, little weird, little crazy, but he like my way of doing things. I learned a lot from him as well. So I told him that, okay, you grab this thing, go back to Naga, and then you win the next election. But right now, he's in Congress, right? So my my way of doing things is kind of unconventional, but it works for for the process that we are doing right now. Give a platform that you have 70% of population join the platform, that means you are doing something right. Thank you.

Tristan   1:21:29  
Question, it's really amazing what you're doing here in your city, May or so. But I'm not really, don't pay anything but, but one thing that I can really see is that you, you are really reaching out to your people. But did it ever like occur to you? Like, when you, who knows, you be leading the entire country, your country, Thailand, or a much bigger city? How do you like, what would be your recommendation, and how to scale this approach? Because the way I see it, if, for example, our city is quite big. I'm not sure what's the size of this city, NSD, but ours is like 2400 square kilometers. It would be really hard and quite impossible for our mayor to like fix a light which is two hours away from the city center. So would you have any specific like guidance or like

Unknown Speaker  1:22:24  
advice to,

Tristan   1:22:27  
like, a much bigger population, a much bigger land size, how to really reach out to the people,

Mayor Kanop  1:22:41  
Show them the benefits, and people will make their decision by themselves, because like 150,000 in Our city, different backgrounds, but they share the same benefit.

Me tell you a story that changed my perspective, perspective about smart city, like a light bulb in my brain, there's a there's a local vendor. It's grandma selling peanuts. Can you look local street vendors, but on the top of her cart is a free card with a QR code of a very popular project of Thai Government, the current project, you pay half, and the government pay half. That's a very popular, very popular project. That's four years ago,

four years ago. So I think, Oh, this is a grandma,

and he has no knowledge about computer or technology at all. Came her job just to sell peanuts, roasted peanuts.

But if she see the benefits of this project, she is far away but there's if there's a will, there's a way.

So she fire away to get this cart with a QR code so her customer can scan it using the half price project. Okay, does she know about the technology? No, but she knows the benefits and make it easy. So make it easy in terms of usage and in terms of communication. Okay, don't come out with a weird name, a fancy name. Make it a smart city. It's a concrete city that people can touch. Okay, I can touch. If you can touch, then you can use it, right? So my answer is that they have to know the benefit, and they make decision. Once they make decision, they have strong will follow the money, right? A strong will over especially local vendors. They get money today. They eat today. Tomorrow is another day. So money is very important to tie it up together, show them the benefits. Thank you.

Wirawee (depa)  1:26:00  
Thank you very much for your presentation and for sharing valuable insights about Akashi Tarah, we truly appreciate your leadership and career support for this program. Next, we would like to invite all delegates to join us for group photo outside the meeting room. Before that, we have a target of appreciation to present to an account with her club is for the one party. May I currently invite Doctor? Executive Vice President of DEVAR to present the gift to local communication.

Mayor Kanop  1:26:35  
It's not it's very hard to condense work that we have done the last four years. Crosses numerous meetings with people, receiving big, crazy people. That's one of the process. Okay, that's one of the process. And present to you in 10 minutes. So I'm trying to explain to you. If you have more questions, please feel free, because you are our special guest. Come all the way from Philippines, from Sarawak, right? So if I can be any use, please ask me questions, and then tomorrow morning, 530 or five in the morning, if a running shoes, video, I pick you up at the airport, at the hotel, even if it's raining, hopefully it's not raining, it's still raining. Then I pick you up at 530 as well. No running, but we go to a pumping station, okay and work together. So we get another special city workers from Philippines, okay to watch our whole farming station. It's fun to do so you can understand a different angle from the action from the people, so that you learn new things every day by people talking to you, especially crazy people.

He ran with me many times, and we have a professor from the US with him. I talked to them and said, Well,

Speaker 1  1:28:34  
let's go around. I thought you were gonna say that I'm the one of the craziest person he met. I thought he was like, non here is crazier than anyone from

Mayor Kanop  1:28:48  
MIT, Andrew, Andrew, just too many questions for you. Okay, I picked you up at 530 and we go running

by running together, these will answer your questions. No need for me to answer unique words.

Next time Andrew comes, I'll put him next to a crazy Google. Please tell Andrew that learn new

Non Arkara  1:29:17  
things. Well, I mean, as mentioned in the beginning, this program was designed to be small, and now you understand why it has to be small. Because when we submit the proposal to the ASEAN for this, we were thinking, Should we make it 30 people, 40 people? Because in a sense of the larger the number is, it's actually usually the better KPI in terms of quantity. But at the end, we decided that if you want to intimacy that we are getting right now, we can't have a program with more than 1010 people, and the fact that we have even fewer than that is actually a boon, because now we're not just doing the learning in the classroom anymore. We're going to be going out, we're going to be getting wet, we're going to be, you know, hurting our legs. We're going to break our legs, we're going to bring our backs a little bit. But all these are for the sake of learning something that that you know you are spending 48 hours. You committed to spend 48 hours with us, so we want to make sure you get the make sure you get the best of what you can within 48 hours, so that, like the mayor said, you would go back to your country to ASEAN and tell them how awesome this program is. So then from now on, we don't get the kind of big workshop that are useless anymore, all these small, intimate ones that people can learn a lot from.

